{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\lang2057\f0\fs22 NOTE: You may not want to read this until you have played 'The Way of Matthius' chapter of your game!\ul\b\fs24\par
\cf0\par
\par
\cf2\fs28 Hero Glyphix Pt. 5\ulnone\b0\par
\fs18 by Matt Needham\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\cf2\b\i\fs22 PROLOGUE\b0\i0\par
\par
Back from the brink! Although few were aware of how close the world had come to disaster, the three Elemental wizards of Fire, Earth and Water rejoiced in the knowledge that they had brought a renewed period of peace across the lands of Magus Magna. The Warlock Edizon, infernal master of inventions was thwarted in his plans to create an unstoppable Golem army, his dark factories were laid to waste and he was stripped of his powers, imprisoned in the icy mountains of the far, far North. This much is told in the events of "Once Twice Thrice".\par
\par
\i Ah, but their respite was shortlived.\par
\i0\par
Now something stirs again in Edizon's secret laboratory. Something hears its master's voice and from a place which for good reason was sealed long ago - it comes! Crawling like a flea towards the soft underbelly of a new host, the creature gazes with wide, bulbous eyes on a world of opportunity. It is full of mercurial mischief... and retribution.\par
     Chaos is unleashed. From the jumbled, sleepy streets of Thaumhaven to idyllic Eo Forest and even into the sanctity of the Lady of Light's underground Hall of Visions, Edizon's eager servant flies North, turning people and belongings into lifeless stone tablets. And yet the deadly creature itself has a pursuer! "Vanglorian", a wand uniquely imbued with the primal magic needed to unweave the cryptic markings of these tablets, finds its way into the hands of a fresh faced wizard not long out of his apprenticeship days. The path of heroism and the bearing of the wand leads from Skimlet Fjordson to his old master Howard Applewood III, then to Lady Judith of Belennia and now to the home of Matthius Magamura on the Southern forest peaks of Jomon province.\par
     With each new twist and turn it becomes clearer that their quarry, a wiley Pox gremlin, is hurrying to free its master from his magical bonds so that he can resume his quest for tyranny. Painfully aware of the increasing urgency of their task our heroes hurry to stop Pox but the creature constantly eludes them, turning to stone any who could stop him and finding ever more devious ways to block their path. But all of this may soon be at an end: the Fire Lord of Akuyoshida will not be toyed with!\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER ONE   \b0 - Passing the torch -\i0\par
\par
As the glyph evaporated into a blizzard of fine dust, the shape of Matthius' body, caught in mid-turn, emerged from within. Even frozen in this pose with the folds of his thick red cloak caught in a swirl around him he cast an imposing figure; strong, arched eyebrows against tanned skin, a long, almost hooked nose and a noble, shaven head offset by the dark spike of a black goatee. Suddenly, the fire wizard was freed from Pox's magic and, as if a video had been unpaused, he continued the attack motion he had started several hours earlier! Swinging around wildly, his blade whistled as it cut through empty air. Although taken by surprise by the lack of resistance at the arc's end, Matthius deftly caught his balance and instinctively turned the force of the move into a second, devastating forward strike aimed at a silhouetted form standing a few feet away. "Yoish!!!"\par
     Woodrot the wood sprite sobered instantly at the sight of his imminent slicing in two and let out a scream that sounded as if it could only have come from a rodent finding itself looking up into the face of the world's toothiest cat , "AIEEEEEeeeee!". But in the moment before the blade could find its target, a stunning explosion of light filled the room. \par
     "Stay thy hand, Lord Magamura!". All was motionless except for the diamond twinkling of dust motes shimmying through the brilliant aura. "Our foe has already left", Judith spoke softly as the dazzlement faded. Matthius blinked away the after-effects of the glare and as he sheathed his weapon he saw that he could read the events of the day in Judith's weary eyes. \par
     "...I understand, my blow was timed several \i hours \i0 too late. My lady, you have undone the curse wrought on me. I am in your debt."\par
     "The responsibility I am about to pass on to you is repayment enough I fear", she said, letting an uncharacterstic smile briefly cross her lips. Extending her pale hand she offered him the elegant, oak wand. As he took it, Matthius was surprised that something so light could have seemed to weigh so heavily on the sorceress. He paused to examine the caduceus' delicate form; twined by two carved serpents, braced with gold bands and decorated with extruding ivory wings - it was unmistakable. \par
     "Methusaleh's wand. Then I was right", he smouldered, furious at having been caught off guard by a lowly creature "A wretched Pox gremlin is loose. To have been ambushed by such a flea!... it is unbefitting." \par
     "Bah! Looks like your reactions are going, as well as your eyesight, Mr. 'Sashimi'." rasped Woodrot as he shakily picked himself up from the ceramic tile floor. \par
     Matthius glanced at Woodrot absentmindedly, "Even monkeys fall from trees."\par
     "A monkey, with that straggly beard? Maybe a goa...". Woodrot noticed that Matthius was giving him the evil eye.\par
     "Indeed," Judith interrupted, "this is \i Edizon's \i0 work. The gremlin is not some random apparition. It is his eager servant, summoned Northward to free him. It has left havoc in its wake that has needed to be remedied all of the leagues back from Thaumhaven." \par
     "Young Skimlet has been proving himself again?" asked the stern fire wizard, with a laugh. \par
     "If it were not for his early actions we would both forever be cold pebbles, neither alive nor dead", said Judith, suddenly trancelike, "Wind stirs the ripples. I foresee he will be a great power one day." She stopped and it seemed as if the sorceress was about to swoon. "Oh, the visions are so insistent, squabbling \i crows! \i0 - Omens of the road travelled and the myriad forks ahead. -\i  it is too much\i0 !-" she whispered to herself.\par
     "Lady Judith, are you alright? Here, you should rest a while," Matthius moved to steady her.\par
     For a fleeting moment she swayed awkwardly, catching her composure, and then she smiled her wan smile once more. "No... No. I am quite fine." She continued quickly, "...By Skimlet's efforts the quest was passed to Howard the Green from whom this wand was passed to me. Now I ask that you continue chase, Methusaleh's device has drained me and I tire of the overworld. I- I must return to my Hall of lights."\par
     "Very well, leave safe in the knowledge that the chase will soon be over," said Matthius with convinction. "It is said 'Do not count tanuki skins before they have been caught', but I swear that it goes no further than this! And if even one wasabi basket in Akuyoshida has been overturned, there will be \b hell \b0 to pay."\par
     "Farewell, brave one."\par
     Matthius paused as Judith's soft illumination caressed the thick wooden frame of the door as she departed.\par
     "<ahem> My lady? You have forgotten your goblin." \par
     "Hey!!! Who are you calling a goblin, slap-head?" barked Woodrot.\par
     Judith turned uncertainly, "Ah, yes I have not told you yet have I? It is so hard to focus, is this before or after the flames? No - no. Of course. It is the dawn of the second day, and Lord Matthius is only about to set out."\par
     "My lady?"\par
     "This is Woodrot. Only he can lead you to the Gremlin, Pox."\par
     The tiny man gave Matthius a beaming, smug grin. "You hear that? I'm important - like, don't mess with me!" he gestured wildly.\par
     Again Matthius gave him the evil eye. "I suppose even a fool has \i one \i0 talent."\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER TWO   \b0 - Cloud Path -\par
\par
\i0 Mist boiled from the leafy mountain tops under the brilliance of the noonday sun as Matthius and his less than willing companion descended a rock-strewn path. Around them pine, beech and cedar trees scraped the undersides of stray clouds scudding across the powder blue skies. Ahead and far below, green rolling fields of long grass swayed in a gentle breeze and the renowned town of Akuyoshida, surrounded by rice fields, was a minute, silver glint on the horizon.\par
     "Are you always this grouchy?" moaned the Wood Sprite. "Read my lips:" he ranted, "this is the WRONG DIRECTION!"\par
     "You are certain you have picked up the gremlin's trail?"\par
     "Uhh, let me see... big googly eyes, fuzzy brown body, pointy teeth, unibrow. So yeah, unless you have a sister we should be headed THAT way!!!", Woodrot gestured angrily off to his right.\par
     "This is the correct way."\par
     "Hey, I'm a compass on legs, I don't make mistakes. Except letting myself get roped into these... deluded heroics. Look at this, I'm getting blisters on my veruccas!" sulked Woodrot. "And hello! - do you think I care about this little 'quest'?! It's not my business what some old codger wearing a yellow tablecloth gets up to. Building rock man armies and what-not.. Let him have his fun, all I want is to be back in my cosy stump with my bed, my booze and my exotic reading materials."\par
     " 'Other's misfortune today might fall upon us tomorrow.'"\par
     "<gasp> You're right! I was blind but now I see! Your magical pearls of wisdom have made a new man of me! Now let's all dance around, and hug and braid each others' hair!!!".\par
     Matthius was unfazed by the sprite's display of sarcasm, "Such selfishness. Your parents would have done well to teach you otherwise."\par
     "Wood sprites don't have parents, we spring fully grown from the sylph-lily's delicate, dewy buds when the first rays of the equinox morning-star fall on the sacred, forest glades of Everberry.  <burrrrp> It's dead poetic."\par
     "You talk too much, creature."\par
     "But you're not listening, bullethead! The GREMLIN is THAT way!"\par
     Matthius stopped in his tracks and fixed his fiery stare on the sprite. "My path is to Akuyoshida Town where no doubt the runtling has been entertaining itself whilst I was incapacitated. Perhaps you are correct and it has already moved on but if I take chase and kill it before solving the glyphs it has made, and I DO intend to kill it, then they will forever be left as stone."\par
     "Ugh, so a few..." started Woodrot.\par
     "THAT is why I am taking this path and why you will follow me. In \b silence\b0 ."\par
     "..." \par
     "If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud expression." said Matthius his stern features never wavering as he resolutely led the way down the mountain path.\par
     "Grrrrrrr," growled the exasperated sprite, trying to keep pace.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
Their path led them down below the treeline into a wide, verdant valley carved between rocky plateaus. Water coursed over the rock face beside them in hundred metre high falls that cast a rainbow spray across their route. A few steps away a small monkey sat perched on a rock, idly watching orange crabs scuttle about in the shallows. Such aesthetic wonders were however entirely lost on Woodrot. "I'm so tired! Why do we have to walk all this way?" he said petulantly as he trudged along, noisily dragging his feet in the hopes of annoying the wizard more.\par
     "Forgive me. Perhaps you would like to be pushed around in a babycart?"\par
     "Oh, funny. You know, we ...huh?" Woodrot stopped at the sight of Matthius peering forwards intently.\par
     "Something lies on the road ahead. Yes, the gremlin has indeed come this way!". Matthius glanced around cautiously at the deep undergrowth and wall of towering bamboo stems that flanked the waterfall. Nothing appeared to be lurking in wait, in fact nothing at all seemed out of the ordinary except for a lone, thick stone tablet lying on the path. The thrushes and crickets sang their summer melodies unconcerned. \par
     Matthius strode purposefully up to the glyph and gave it a sharp prod with the wand. There was a burst of red sparks as it flipped end over end and sprang from the ground. Woodrot flinched wildly as the wizard tripped back a step but the tablet simply hung there, hovering in mid-air. As they watched, numbers were engraving themselves around a luminous grid that appeared on the tablet's surface and Methusaleh's creation hummed in anticipation of its purpose. Matthius stared at the strange scene, a single eyebrow raised. After only a few moments, however, the fire wizard set about it, ably mastering the art and quickfire logic of glyph-weaving. Then with a final conductor's strike he freed from the stone... a single wooden sandal?\par
     "Oh, now it's all clear to me! We had to make a 10 mile detour to save a \i shoe\i0 ." enthused Woodrot, his puffy red cheeks getting even ruddier in his annoyance.\par
     "A sandal that belonged to somebody..."\par
     His attention was drawn to a shadow around the bend of the road. A few paces further and they came upon a second tablet. Matthius skillfully orchestrated its destruction with the flair of someone who had been doing such work for years. \par
     "A parcel of Mochi-balls. Hmm, they are flat on one side as if they were hurled with some force before being poxed. <sniff sniff> Cooked fresh today. Perhaps a little too much mugwort..."\par
     "Well this is all *fascinating* of course, detective, but can we hurry it up?" Woodrot scowled.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
As Matthius suspected it wasn't long before they found several more tablets littering their way. In less than a minute the path had joined the Rokuju-roku Road from the West and widened out into a dusty highway big enough for horse carts to use. Here, alongside the fields of tall, sweet smelling grass, two more glyphs lay close together on a buttercup-dotted verge.\par
     "Ha! More of the gremlin's work." Although he was more accustomed to the ways of physical and magical combat, Matthius was truly beginning to savor this quest. The unashamedly hardened, stoic face that he showed to the world concealed a drive and a determination to put things right that was an integral part of his character. Whether it demanded his formidable skills of battle or as it did right now, his mental agility, the role of 'Hero' suited him better than any other. Especially when it involved his home town.\par
     His love of justice was the reason he had dedicated himself to both a life of elemental wizardry and the Dragon Path: the strict but pure Way of life that the country's noble, Ry\cf0\f1\'fb\cf2\f0 do warriors had followed for centuries. It was extremely unusual for a wizard to have the force of will to master two such diverse callings, but in his case it seemed the most natural thing in the world.\par
     As a child Matthius Magamura had shown more than a spark of potential to be a fire wizard, the traditional elemental alignment of Jomon prefecture. He was the most forthright and determined of students. When at the age of 8 he faced his very own trial by fire, a series of ritual tests in the caverns of the active volcano Akuyama, he was the second youngest ever to succeed. His instructors were not surprised.\par
\cf0      In the defining years that followed, the red-clad wizard became something of a legend even in his home province. On countless occasions he gained fame, proving himself as the protector of Akuyoshida. Whether it be capturing three Kazenagian assassins intent on taking General Ning'yo's life or simply saving a crop yield from a stray stampede of Mump-ox, he grew to become a perfect ally and a fearful enemy.\par
     \par
The glyph gave up its contents. "A woman's money purse and a scattering of small coins."\par
     "Now that's more like it!"said Woodrot beckoning with his fingers for Matthius to toss him the discovery. "I'll just hold that for ya.""Right here.""To me"."Move it or lose it.""Gimme gimme."\par
     "You may hold the sandal."\par
     "...Where's the trust?" said Woodrot innocently.\par
     The second tablet proved to be: "More personal belongings - a broken straw hat." Matthius looked up with a stern expression. "Yes, whomever the gremlin attacked it appears they put up a struggle. We should hurry, I would expect to see many people this close to town at noon. Yet the road is empty."\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
Woodrot stared up at the pale and distant peak of Mt. Aku. It appeared to be almost hovering in the sky, ghostlike beyond the town. Despite the warmth of the day and the humid breeze that swept through the rice fields around him, he shivered. Without warning the nearby bushes rustled and Matthius stopped abruptly. "Get down!" he snapped in a hushed voice, knocking Woodrot off his feet. The distracted sprite flopped clumsily onto his face and let out an 'ow!'\par
     "AAAAaaaa!" yelled the bush. "Stay away monster! Wasn't it enough that you ate my mother? Didn't she fill you up?"\par
     Matthius raised himself up to his full height and said with a commanding voice "Show yourself!"\par
     "No! I won't!", the bush trembled even more violently.\par
     "Come out Ichiko, unless you wish me to set the bush on fire."\par
     A wiry, middle-aged man poked his head out nervously from the leaves and then slowly emerged from his hiding place. "Oh, Lord M-magamura! <sob> Thank the heavens. Have you driven off the terrible demon that attacked us? We threw everything we could at it, but - but it chased us like a tiger!"\par
     Matthius had already spotted the large tablet where it lay in a nearby puddle. "And it ate your mother?"\par
     "Yes! I tried to fight it off, of course - but it gobbled her up in front of my eyes!"\par
     "I see." said Matthius with false graveness. "Then perhaps you can explain this?"\par
     The charms binding this glyph were a little tougher to break than those the wizard had previously battled, but in due course the figure of a hunched, white-haired woman was deposited onto the path. She turned to Matthius and beamed so broadly that her tanned face wrinkled up like a leather glove. Ichiko gasped at the sight.\par
     "Ahhh I am saved, hm? And who do I have to thank?" croaked the old lady.\par
     "No thanks are necessary, Oba-san."\par
     Ichiko's mother's eyes lit up and she grabbed Matthius by the cheeks, squeezing them with her rough fingers. "Aha! I should have known. I remember young Matty, so polite, always running about town helping to light the shrine pyres. But my how you've grown!"\par
     "Mother!!!" shrieked Ichiko absolutely horrified and looking as if he were about to faint. "You cannot talk to Lord Magamura that way! A thousand, humble apologies my Lord!"\par
     "<ahem> Here are your  belongings, you should return directly home there will be no market in town today. Please take care, the countryside will not be safe until I have... corrected matters." said Matthius, displaying his controlled good nature.\par
     "Yes, we had better be going." said Ichiko hurriedly bowing. "Magamura-san will surely see that the town is safe. Thank you, thank you."\par
     "Good bye!" sang the old lady as they departed slowly back the way they had come. Matthius and the wood sprite watched for a moment as they hobbled away. \par
     "Charming people", said Woodrot with a carefree smile. "Are they all dropped on their heads as babies or did we just get lucky with those two?"\par
     "Hmph. The dung beetle should not judge the worm."\par
     "You're just making these up now, aren't you?"\par
     "I doubt you would know the difference, goblin."\par
     "I've told you, I am not a goblin! And I have a name thank you very much. Woodrot S.Mildew ... the First." he said grandly.\par
     "Now that Lady Judith has given you to me, I believe I shall call you... Spot."\par
     "Given? Given to you? What do you th-..!"\par
     "We are nearly at the gates, Spot." the wizard interrupted as they walked. "You will OBEY the customs of the village you enter, and if you do not then I will do what no-one has done before; I will teach you some manners."\par
     Woodrot started to speak and then thought better of it. As they neared the tall wooden gates of the walled town the look of deadly serious intent on the wizard's face was enough to silence even him. At least for a while. \par
\par
\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER THREE   \b0 - Harmony's Flame -\par
\par
\i0 A few minutes had passed since they had entered town and all was not as it should be. Matthius glanced around apprehensively, standing in the empty centre of the sandy area where the Golden Day market was normally held. Akuyoshida, with its sturdy wooden buildings and tiled roofs in burning reds and blues, was as strikingly beautiful as ever but the villagers had deserted the streets leaving an uneasy calm.\cf3  \cf0 "So quiet, and yet... not peaceful. Quiet like the silence between the lightning and its thunder". He paused. Concern was boiling inside of him but he was unsure of where to go next.\par
     "Quickly, come inside," called a nearby voice.\par
     "My place is out here, friend. Take shelter," Matthius answered without turning.\par
     "Come - come!", the voice insisted. "I would offer you today's special but I don't think you'd find it very appetising."\par
     "...", Matthius furrowed his brow, then smiled in recognition... "-You- could turn a peasant's potluck into a banquet, Shigesato."\par
     The speaker stepped out from the nearby doorway so that the dancing embers alongside the gilded ornamental facade of Harmony's Flame restaurant, now illuminated rather than obscured his wide, grinning face. "Ha! And you were always my best customer, Flames. But see for yourself, there's no kind of garnish that could make you swallow these tablets."\par
     "Tablets? Stone tablets?"\par
     "And we have much more to talk about besides. The town is in no immediate danger but something is -coming-. Something very bad indeed."\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
"So Shige, even fiends from the demon realms have heard of "Harmony's Flame"'s reputation?". Matthius slapped the restaurant owner heartily on the back.\par
     "I'd gladly accept the compliment, but I don't think the intruder came for Jomon's finest cuisine," said Shigesato, locking the restaurant's door as he guided them inside. "The crazed thing tore through here like a tsunami, firing out bursts of weird energy, ate a barrel and a half of my hottest Makharjeno chillis and then <poof!>".\par
     "Gone?"\par
     "And no tip!", the ebullient host laughed.\par
     "Well that's a score I'll settle for you, along with a few more. But let me dispose of the stone tablets first, whilst you fill me in."\par
     "One moment." Shigesato hurried away to the back of the empty restaurant as Matthius formally seated himself on the floor, next to a low, black laquered wooden table with twisting, gold leaf dragons inlaid around its border. Day or night, this particular table always seemed to be available for the wizard and although Matthius had never asked, he suspected his good host quietly ensured that it was so. He gazed out through the concave lens of the adjacent window and glanced to the sky as he again contemplated the tense atmostphere that seemed to be settling over the town. Uncomfortable, almost oppressive? He couldn't be certain even with his keenly attuned senses, but something told him that it was true, something was indeed wrong. And it was getting worse.\par
     "Mmm-mmmm, smells good!" said Woodrot fidgeting expectantly.\par
     Shigesato, the Ryori family's latest and perhaps greatest member in a long line of Jomon cooks, bustled back to the table to serve up his strangest ever dish; a heavy granite tablet (which he still took care to present in front of Matthius on a finely stitched bamboo mat). With subtle gestures of the wand and a little mental exertion Matthius unwove the glyph's bindings and in a matter of minutes returned it back into an elegant dish that Shigi had prepared earlier.\par
     "Still piping hot I see. Perhaps such a gremlin could have its uses after all, I wonder?" the cook laughed.\par
     "Ahh, your finest Beef Bowl!" said Matthius. "Always time for a hearty meal,". "*Dig in!*," he added respectfully before chowing down.\par
     Woodrot stared open mouthed and drooling as the wizard ate.\par
     "<munch> So, are we definitely talking about the same creature?"\par
     "I am sure; a servile Pox Gremlin of the kind thought to have been wiped out 400 years ago. Brown furred, the fiercest variety if my knowledge does not fail me."\par
     "You're full of surprises, Shigi!"said Matthius, impressed.\par
     "Well, it pays to know your magical denizens when you operate a restaurant in times such as these," Shigesato smiled. "And this may interest you, when the creature first arrived it was ravenous, it seemed driven to eat the chillis, and afterwards... it appeared to be energised. Even faster and wilder!"\par
     "Spicy food? Hmm..." pondered Matthius.\par
     Always the gracious host, Shigesato removed the empty bowl and chopsticks and soon replaced them with another tablet. Again Matthius despatched it with ease.\par
     "Tempura King Prawns! Ah yes, I could be persuaded. *Dig in*."\par
     Woodrot again looked on in pained hunger, drooling like a dog. "My turn, my turn!"\par
     "Indeed. Shige, please bring my creature some fish heads or whatever it is that Kappas eat," said Matthius as he exchanged a subtle smile with the cook.\par
     "Fish heads?!!?" yelled Woodrot, angry and disgusted. "I'm not a goblin, and I am NOT a Kappa!"\par
     "Hmm, green skin, bald crown. You appear to be a Kappa to me. <munch>"\par
     "It's a tight fitting cowl! Not green skin!" fumed the sprite, but his protestations fell on deaf ears.\par
     Moments later Matthius was on to the next course: "<sniff sniff> This Teppan Yaki Salmon is grilled to perfection, and the spring onions - so artistically arranged, like breaking waves. My compliments!". Woodrot's face was a definition of sulkiness worthy of an encyclopaedia. "*Dig in!*" said the wizard.\par
     Shigi bowed, "A good cook is one half artist." he smiled.\par
     Matthius swallowed happilly and asked, "How long since the gremlin left?"\par
     "Oh, it must have been six hours or more. I was preparing these dishes at dawn for the early arriving merchants. It came in through the side entrance to the kitchen - really, everything happened in a matter of moments."\par
     "I'm glad that you were not struck by its magic, leaving the hearth to rage uncontrolled! It could have been a lot more serious, my friend. The whole town is lucky that the gremlin seems to have had other priorites to pursue."\par
     "If only it were that simple. We may live to regret that our problems weren't so mundane as a burned down restaurant."\par
     "Come, Shige... what aren't you telling me?" asked the wizard, but his host had already departed to find another glyph, leaving Matthius wondering. However, he was soon back.\par
     "Oh-ho! I'd know this dish with my eyes closed." boomed Matthius, as the wand revealed another meal fit for royalty. "Cinder-fish Sushi, truly your speciality."\par
     "The Cinder-fish were caught fresh this morning, and I have the burns to prove it!", laughed Shigesato.\par
     "My stomach thanks you. *Dig in!*", Matthius scarfed down the stunningly presented seafood and rice creations. "<munch> Shige, were you able to see which way the gremlin headed?"\par
     "Certainly. It headed due North as far as Old Itoi's cherry orchards before I lost sight of it and no other homes or stores in town have been attacked. However the creature was not seen spotted town until several hours later..."\par
     Matthius mulled over the list of possibilities in his mind as he ponderously dipped the last cinder-fish roll into his Harmony mayonnaise. "Curious..."\par
     "Yeah I \i know\i0 . If I were him I'd be out of this deadbeat town before my feet touched the ground," sulked Woodrot.\par
     "Your opinion is not required, Rover. And return that bottle of sake to where you found it."\par
     "It's -Spot-! Waitaminute, I mean Woodrot! WOODROT!", fumed the sprite. "Oooooogh!". But once again Woodrot's usual antics were going unnoticed as the wizard was busy solving another tablet. He could barely believe that his power to annoy others, the thing he cherished more than anything else in the world (except perhaps making unpleasant smells when people least expected it), was being turned back on him.\par
     "Soup Tempura Soba, there's always room for noodles! <slurp> *Dwg un!* <slurp>"\par
     "Alright, this news has me worried, Flames..."\par
     "Hmphsh?"\par
     "..I have it on good authority that the Jomon Nation Army is mobilising."\par
     Matthius swallowed hard, "Training maneuvers?"\par
     "I cannot be sure, but I'm told that General Nin'gyo is alerting all soldiers to move imminently, and this was not planned in advance." \par
     "Your 'good authority' is enough for me, Shige. If there's something happening here in Jomon that you don't know about then it isn't worth knowing", the wizard laughed. "But what would our army be preparing for? Pox is a menace, but hardly worthy of such a display of force."\par
     "I have my fears but even I, with my many ears, am left wondering," Shigesato smiled, but it seemed a little labored. \par
     And as the remaining dishes were cleared away, so the final tablet left in the wake of Pox's invasion of Harmony's Flame was presented to the wizard and duely reversed back into its original form. "Chilled, wild-plum riceballs. Perhaps I should take a few of these sweet onigiri delights with me? Ah, but it would be impolite not to \cf2 savor \cf0 one or two now. *Dig in!*"\par
     "Ha ha! Your appetite is as famous as my cooking, that must be why the two are so compatible," again the host beamed.\par
     "The wise warrior goes to battle with a content stomach," said Matthius. "If I leave but one piece of wisdom of my own to this world, let it be that."\par
     "I may consider engraving it above the door," he grinned.\par
     Woodrot let out a small <whimper>.\par
     "Shige, would you bring a plate of pot stickers for my friend here. After all, the battle ahead is not mine alone."\par
     Woodrot sat up in surprise.\par
     "Here you go." Shigesato placed an appealing looking assortment of cooked knick-knacks in front of the drooling sprite, who set about them greedily.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
"Now to more serious matters... surely you have sensed something in the air, an atmosphere descending over Akuyoshida? Perhaps over the whole of Jomon province?"\par
     Matthius's gaze wandered upwards to the beams of the roof above him. He paused in concentration as if listening for a distant voice and then was forced to nod in agreement "I cannot place it, but yes. I believe you're right."\par
     "My magical abilities only extend into the culinary arts, but still I know something of harmony. And that is what I sense now, or rather - disharmony? What does that say to you?"\par
     "I feel... It is if a... a balance had been tipped."\par
     "Flames, when the gremlin disappeared in town, it was last seen not far from Five Gardens. I cannot help but think..."\par
     "!" Matthius' face dropped, in a shocked realisation and he leapt up from the table. "The Gardens... this is no coincidence. We must go."\par
     "Hwy! Mm stll eading!! <crunch crunch>"\par
     "Immediately! Thank you for your warmest hospitality, Shigesato Ryori."\par
     "Lord Matthius... may Aku's fire be your courage."\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER FOUR   \b0 - Five Gardens -\i0\par
\par
"Five bloody great rocks?", remarked Woodrot, staring at the gigantic shapes in front of them.\par
     The wizard was aghast, "What th- ?"\par
     "So is this a 'garden' in the same sense that raw fish is a 'good meal' and an active volcano is an 'attractive landmark to build your village next to'?" asked Woodrot straight faced but with a lot of enjoyment. He'd never seen Matthius looking shaken before.\par
     "Here on this spot, there \i were \i0 five vast and ancient gardens, immeasurably valuable to the town. Not only for their beauty and for their significance to the Ry\f1\'fb\f0 do, warriors such as myself, but -", he paused, suddenly realising what he was looking at. "NO! Can it be possible that the gremlin is capable of such a feat? These towering monstrosities are *tablets* the size of yew trees. Monoglyphs!"\par
     "Uh huh?", Woodrot picked his teeth distractedly. "So who's for another trip back to the restaurant? Maybe we could find a couple of attractive lady friends, and then hot-cha!"\par
     "Listen up, stink sap!", Matthius ordered as he wheeled around on the sprite. "This is a sacred place and its defilement puts all of us in very, grave danger!"\par
     "It is you who are the stinky-" Woodrot mumbled under his breath.\par
     "QUIET!", Matthius looked ready to toast the sprite. "First we must put this right," the wand hummed like never before, "and then, - only then will we see what the real damage is."\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
It was hot on the barren patch of land where the five ugly pillars of black rock stood, and the afternoon sun baked the remaining moisture from the ground with an unsympathetic intensity. The air was heavy and still, except for the even whine of cicadas, but the beads of sweat now gathering on Matthius' brow owed more to magical exertions than the climate. It was demanding an immense amount of concentration to beat these glyphs, but it was as nothing compared to his determination. And at last, the moment of victory: "Yes!", he gasped lowering the wand. "The pride of Akuyoshida, the Strolling Pond garden is restored!" \par
     The enormous rock moaned for a moment as it began to crack in two, then into four, eight and so on rapidly into a thousand swirling pieces which became a sandstorm of disappearing dust. And from that boiling cloud a beautiful landscape unfurled itself back into its proper place. Mere moments later you would have sworn that the garden hadn't been touched since times of antiquity.\par
     Matthius sighed with enormous relief and a familiar sense of awe at the sight. "These glyphs are far more powerful, I could actually feel Vanglorian drawing on my own strength to destroy it! Still it is a small price to pay to save such a vista." He enthusiastically led Woodrot forwards, "This is more than land, it is poetry. See how the pond's shape is pleasingly irregular, filled with koi and shady lillies, and here, the majestic Moon Bridge passes over the calmest waters - the perfect spot for considering one's self, one's actions." Matthius drew himself up to his full height and took a deep breath, reciting the following with a rehearsed exactitude:\par
\par
"The past, reflected, \par
Shows the shining course one takes\par
To wield the future"\par
\par
The wizard smiled. Inwardly he sensed the garden's acceptance of the poem.\par
     "Huh?" said Woodrot. "Did you feel that?"\par
     "There is a power to all the Ry\f1\'fb\f0 do teachings,", he uttered in hushed tones, "but these particular verses- ... well, you will understand soon enough."\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
"Stand away!", Matthius yelled as he scored the final mark onto the face of the second monoglyph.\par
     "!", Woodrot scurried aside as the rock prepared to surrender its contents.\par
     "There! The Natural Garden is returned to its sacred plot," he said as a gust of sweet air washed over them.\par
     "Whoa, it's amazing!", gaped Woodrot at the sight of it taking root again. "-uh-, I mean \i big\i0 . Big, old, stupid garden. <yaa-awn>", he added unconvincingly.\par
     "Haha, even you cannot fail to be impressed." Matthius smiled, not unkindly.\par
     The sprite mumbled, "...kinda reminds me of home...".\par
     "Like a forest, the Natural Garden creates the illusion of the wild. Feel the moss under your feet, and all around the untrimmed foliage obscures where the garden leads so that each new view is unexpected. There are no bridges or benches here, only fortuitous stepping stones or a fallen log to rest on."\par
\par
"Through uncertainty\par
Unaided, Unimpeded,\par
Your will is your own", Matthius recited in a forceful voice.\par
\par
"Hey -I- know one of those! - <ahem> - 'There was an old man from Nantucket...'"\par
     "I do not believe that is either a haiku, or appropriate for a holy place such as this," interrupted Matthius sternly. Woodrot stared back with a blank look on his face. The wizard sighed, "A haiku, a three line poem of 5, 7 and 5 syllables... why are you creeping behind that rhodedendron?"\par
     "Call of nature, Flamey"\par
     "Answer that call here, and it'll be the last time you're ever able to," said Matthius giving Woodrot the evil-eye like never before.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
"Success!", Matthius chalked up another victory, his eyes glinting. If the task was draining his reserves or his resolve then it wasn't showing.\par
     "Man, I wouldn't want to see the kitty this giant litter-box belongs to," said Woodrot peering disdainfully at the enclosed garden of raked gravel that had appeared in front of them.\par
     "Very good. I almost laughed at that one."\par
     "Really?", asked the sprite.\par
     "NO," said Matthius bluntly. "The Sand and Stone garden; it is famed for its austere, minimalistic quality, it's refined nature cannot be appreciated by... everyone. The sand is persuaded into artful shapes and forms with gentle raking, but once done it is coarse enough to be immune to the elements. You will notice too, only a few planted mounds or rocks, but these symbolise things of great importance to the town. Over there, the large jet rock surrounded by smaller granite boulders marks a terrible war from half a millenium ago-"\par
     "And this is what passes for entertainment around here? Hoo-ee, and I thought the pace of life in \i Everberry \i0 was terminally slow."\par
     "My patience is not boundless, creature!" said the wizard, stepping forward. "Now show some respect and hold your tongue while I recite the key:" Matthius closed his eyes for a moment, centering himself. A smile of certainty flickered across his face and then he spoke, looking to the centre of the garden:\par
\par
"One's nature is shaped\par
Hesitantly, but no foe\par
May ever change it."\par
\par
"Uh-huh, yep, that's me all over. Nothing's gonna change Woodrot. I'm in the zone, perfect as I am." nodded the sprite vigorously scratching his behind and then pausing to smell his finger.\par
     "<sigh> It takes 10 years to \i begin \i0 to truly understand the many teachings and become one with Ry\f1\'fb\f0 do, the Dragon Path. For you, eternity would perhaps not be sufficient."\par
     "Oh puhlease, I bet I could be a great Rude-dog if I \i wanted \i0 to but higher beings like me have more important things on our minds."\par
     "It is 'RY\f1\'db\f0 -DO'! Mastery of the blade, honing of the spirit, mind and body toward a single purpose. Foregoing all weakness; pride, avarice and value of one's own life, aspiring toward a purity of selfless thought and action embodied in the betterment of one's self and the dedication to justice in all things."\par
     "You lost me at 'honing', is that essential because it sounds like a lot of work?"\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
There was a much longer delay before the wizard had reason to speak again, then: "These large glyphs put us at a far greater risk of Pox's attack. It seems he can ... teleport... move at will between the more powerful tablets that he creates. That's one more reason why we have to destroy all of them before we confront the gremlin himself - anything less than that, and we're allowing him an escape route!" Matthius had triumphed over another puzzle, but only after a fierce battle of wills. The gremlin had materialised mid-way through and he had been forced to constantly fend off it's frenzied attempts to confuse the unweaving of the glyph! Of course now that Matthius was free to attack it, the gremlin had immediately fled - vanished back to wherever it had come from. "But look, the imperial Tea Garden is restored!".\par
     A flock of songbirds were already darting down to roost among the garden's lush greenery and small insects bobbed about the swathes of flowering azalea, apparently unconcerned by the whole business of dematerialising and rematerialising.\par
     "Here, the spirit is cleansed and the senses heightened before passage is allowed from the Outer to the Inner Tea Garden. I regret we will not enter, the ceremony is quite intricate and time consuming, and we have little to spare." As before, Matthius absorbed the atmosphere of the place for a moment before reciting aloud:\par
\par
"Bow one thousand times!\par
The path to the Path lies in\par
Constant deference"\par
\par
"What -was- that sound?", Woodrot asked looking around in vain.\par
     "There, we are one step closer to the greatest secret in Akuyoshida." said Matthius with a knowing smile.\par
     \par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
"It is done!" Matthius exclaimed, a little out of breath.\par
     "Huh, looks like you were too late to save this one" said Woodrot.\par
     "The possibilities in a single space are infinite, but, yes, the Flat Sea Garden may appear \i empty \i0 at first glance. Aside from the undulating ocean of gravel there is little to look at, there are no walls, no plants and little even in the way of rocks. And yet... this makes it the most provocative of them all. There is nothing in the garden except what you bring to it."\par
\par
"Contemplate the void,\par
The Dragon lights your veins when\par
You concede your death."\par
\par
"... yyyeah, that's a nice sentiment. A little deep, not quite greeting card material you know? But uh... <shiver> Has anyone ever told you, you're a big dose of creepy?"\par
     "Facing the inevitability of one's own death, it is... one of the hardest of the Ry\f1\'fb\f0 do disciplines to embrace -" said Matthius in a far softer voice than Woodrot was accustomed to, "but the most liberating. In order to do the greatest things, you must first give up the fear of losing. Fears of injury, weakness or failure are what hold us back from being the person we were born to be..."\par
     "Oooh, tell me more, Dr. Phil!"\par
     "Pah, why am bothering with you." said Matthius, suddenly very angry at himself for even considering treating Woodrot as an equal. "There's work to be done," he snapped, and then he realised what he'd achieved.\par
     With sweat still glinting on his forehead and fire in his eyes Matthius stepped back to survey the ellysian panaroma in front of him, "A-ha, I had almost lost track of my progress- ! All Five Gardens are restored to their former splendor!!! Akuyoshida has reclaimed its crowning glory and the five keys have been spoken. Come now, you most honored of all worms. You are about to step where for centuries, not even kings have trodden! Ichi, ni, san, shi, GO! \i The Dark Ossuary Temple is unlocked!!!\i0 "\par
     "The who does what now?!"\par
     "Hidden in the centre of its gardens is the entrance to the inverted temple. See there, the door is marked now by five pyres lit by the Ryudo verses!"\par
     "...So this temple was built \i underground\i0 , and only one of you, whacky Dragon Path guys would know the password to open it? Hey, so what is it that you and the iron chef were so worried about Pox getting his hands on, what are we talking about here? Gold? Gems? Fabulous vintage wine, maybe?"\par
     "Grab a torch and I'll introduce you", said the wizard darkly.\par
     "I-i-introduce me?"\par
\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER FIVE   \b0 - In darkness, sleeps -\par
\par
\i0 "How far do these stairs go?" Woodrot squeaked, as he tripped gingerly from step to dust-shrouded step into the pitch blackness below. He was getting increasingly unhappy with the situation. \i\par
\i0      "Deep down, down deep. Do not ask me, I've never been inside the temple catacombs, no-one has for hundreds of years." Matthius said it with a hint of the dramatic, thought the sprite, but then again the atmosphere of the place was more than enough to set his nerves on edge! That first draft of dank and musty air that had wafted out when Matthius commanded open the mossy, stone trapdoor would have been enough to make him run a mile, but there was no arguing with the wizard. Now to make matters worse, he was wondering if he was claustrophobic and the promise, or rather the threat, of meeting something \i alive \i0 lurking down there was altogether too much for him.\par
     "I think I'm going to scurry back up... for a breath of fresh air", he tried.\par
     "I'll tell you what, why don't I tell you a story to calm your nerves?" grinned Matthius. "... Ah yes. Five hundred and thirteen years ago, a young man born in Akuyoshida, rose to the position of Emperor. The people praised his great strength and threw festivals in honor of his ascendance, especially here in this village where he had lived and trained to become a fire wizard. But the man... was not a man. He was a Jinn, a monster in disguise. And, after gorging his powers on the elemental heart of the volcano, he revealed the horror of his true nature as The Demon Emperor Kazenagi!"\par
     "I don't think I like this story!!" moaned Woodrot.\par
     "The world entered a merciless Age of Darkness like none it had ever seen before, or has since. The sky was filled with ash, the rivers ran sulphur and the people... the people could only aspire to even survive by supplicating to his cruel reign. But hope is never fully extinguished, not even in the face of such a formiddable evil, and the day that heroes banded together and fought back finally came. In one night, the lives of an entire generation of wizards were lost. We still remember the sacrifice they made in order to kill Kazenagi..."\par
     Woodrot gulped loudly, trying to get rid of the dryness in his throat.\par
     "But even in his destruction, the demon's wickedness lashed out, for you see, he held such terrible power that his burning essence rained down upon the remaining armies that opposed him - and it corrupted them. They were stained with his malignancy, they shrank back into the Northern provinces changed, warped. They became the Yogon." \i\par
\i0     "Uh-..<gulp> - uh-huh?"\par
     "In the months that followed, the survivors built this temple to house the demon's bones-"\par
     "A \i holy \i0 place for the big, evil's charred remains?"\par
     "To house the demon's bones, and principally to -harness his creature-."\par
     "Ye-ah, I think you already mentionned something down here was aliv-" said the sprite, quivering.\par
     "HUSH!", Matthius stopped dead, listening. "Quickly, extinquish your torch!"\par
     "Whaa?!? No \i way\i0 !"\par
     "-It's attracted to the lights!- Do it!"\par
     The sprite swore as he stubbed his torch into the dust and the stairwell surrendered to an all-consuming blackness. Matthius listened for a moment and then insisted in hushed tones, "Alright, keep walking." Woodrot began to whimper like a puppy but reluctantly did as he was told. "I've got your back, coward. Besides, I thought gnomes could see in the dark, how else do you mine your beetle-grubs?"\par
     "I'm not a fr-fricken gnome, I'm ... oh, I get it. You think if you make me mad it'll take my mind off the fact you're leading us down to our certain deaths, huh?"\par
     Matthius laughed heartily, "HAhahaha", barely managing to contain the sound. "... vigilance, we're almost at the bottom."\par
     "-Oh great-" whispered Woodrot.\par
     "I don't hear a thing. Stand back - IN FLAM!" With a mighty <whumf!> Matthius formed a quivering ball of fire in his open palm. It starkly illuminated the large, high-ceilinged chamber that they now found themselves in. Diseased looking roots and cobwebs twisted from the ceiling in a choking mass around the perimeter of the room but the centre was conspicuously empty. Empty except for a stone tablet. "By Pyrrha! That damned gremlin even found its way down here?! Of course... it could just glyph the temple entrance, do its damage and then undo the spell when it left. I've gravely underestimated its cunning," he shook his head, "it couldn't have picked a worse place to attack. There, that large tablet sitting on the crypt lid, it must be the creature; -Penitence-. We have to free it immediately!"\par
     "You're gonna let the beast loose with us in here? Are you mad?"\par
     "Understand, we have no choice: every minute that Penitence is powerless, it puts Akuyoshida and all the people of Jomon in mortal danger..." Matthius' eyes were drawn to a flat shape poking out of the shadows near him. "Wait, there's a second tablet buried here in all the dust and detritus and it looks... ancient. I don't think our gremlin made this. It may have been here since the temple was first sealed! Will the wand still work on it?" Matthius twirled Vanglorian in his other hand with a gunslinger's flourish. "Alright, let's do it!"\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****   \par
\par
It was a tense moment even for Matthius. When the very last mark of the magical puzzle was ready to be made he actually paused for a split-second. An unusual hesitation by his standards! Then he thrust the wand forward and Penitence's tablet shattered violently.\par
     "Phwwweeeeargh!" a gigantic, round creature emerged suddenly from the tablet, thrashing it's bloated body around on fat, stumpy legs. Several tattered pairs of wings flapped tiredly from side to side like torn paper, as the panicked beast reared up and hooted out a terrible echoing, cacophany of deep, squealing wails through a kind of short, droopy trunk.\par
     "What the @$%# is that?" choked Woodrot, barely making himself heard.\par
     Matthius rapidly guided them both backwards until they were almost forced flat against the chamber wall. "Amazing... Kazenagi's \b familiar\b0 ! Some wizards and sorceresses have cats, or owls - Kazenagi took an Octo-Moth."\par
     "But that's no little, flitty Octo-Moth. Its huge!" Woodrot gaped.\par
     "Phwaa-aagh-agha!" cried the Octo-Moth, shuddering but, it seemed, beginning to calm itself a little.\par
     Matthius shouted back, "It's been down here for an age, and by the looks of it, it never stopped growing! PENITENCE!..." Matthius tried to command it, "... I think it is just not used to visitors. It is more scared of us than we are of it."\par
     "Speak for yourself!!" the sprite yelled, trying to position himself behind Matthius' robes as the now pallid, red-skinned beast lumbered around just inches away.\par
     "When the Demon Emperor died, a remnant of his awesome power still resided in his familiar. It was captured - alive - and this temple was built to harness that power, to use it to \i protect \i0 the province! Like a - like a holy shield cast over us, it has kept the Yogon tribes at bay ever since." Matthius paused, able to lower his voice a little as Penitence was quietening, hurumphing and heaving itself ponderously back onto the depression that it had made on the chamber floor over the centuries. "...Only now," the wizard continued, "that shield is gone. The spell has been broken for only a few hours but I know in my heart, the Yogon will have already seized the opportunity to mass their forces against us. No doubt, \i that's \i0 the reason that Nin'gyo is leading our army out."\par
     "So," urged Woodrot "get this thing started. Red alert, shields up!"\par
     But although he didn't want to speak it aloud, the truth was that Matthius had no idea how to do that. Surely the survivors of the War would have made precautions for the shield failing? There had to be a clue here, he insisted to himself, some hint of how to restore the protective spell? It was a long and doom-filled silence before Matthius suddenly kicked himself. The ancient tablet that he'd noticed earlier, if Pox wasn't responsible then it must have been left \i intentionally \i0 by a wizard from that time, long ago, when such gremlins were considered to be useful, magical conveniences rather than deadly pests - from a time soon after the temple had been built! He whipped around, focusing Vanglorian onto the half-buried glyph and it flipped into the air in a cascade of dust. In perhaps thirty seconds (the wizard's fastest ever work) the tablet itself was resigned to the dust on the floor and a parchement scroll fell neatly into his open hands.\par
     "There's a single word written on this scroll," Matthius said with wonder, "it says... Noctuid."\par
     "Noctuid? Noc-tuid. Hmm, no-c-tu-id... ... n.. oh..." said Woodrot blanking, but still trying to sound intelligent.\par
     "Is it another password? The temple's architect? Blast. What does it mean?..." Matthius paced. "Of \i course\i0 . Hrmph, I must be losing my touch if it took me this long. "Noctuid" - is the name of the beast."\par
     "Huh, but you said-?"\par
     "The survivors called it 'Penitence' to serve its new role, that of using the dark remnants for good instead of evil, but they could only \i command \i0 it with its true name - the one that Kazenagi bestowed upon it!" Matthius tweaked his beard and pulled himself up into his most commanding pose as he narrowed his eyes. "Noctuid, AEGIS ETERNIA!"\par
     "Phwaaaa-!", Penitence trumpeted a long, pure note, shifted its massive weight for a moment and then it closed its dark, dewy eyes and slept. Returning once more to its dreams in which it was redeemed, gliding over sunlit waters.\par
     "Look, it sleeps once more - and I can feel it, almost like the warmth of a sunset - its protection returns to Jomon. May you find peace in your duties, Penitence."\par
     "...So we can get out of here now?"\par
     "We can-..."\par
     "O-ho yes!"\par
     " ... -to join the bloody fray at the front lines and to finally get face to face with the gremlin! Now things get SERIOUS!" vowed the wizard with deadly determination.\par
     Woodrot groaned.\par
\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER SIX   \b0 - Feudal Battlefields -\par
\par
\i0 With their eyes blinking in the bright afternoon sunlight, they stood atop a grassy escarpment and peered into the distance. "Curse Edizon's creature! We're too late... Look at what it has wrought! Half a league to the North - our troops are engaging the Yogon!"\par
     The battle was too far away for them to hear anything of it, but from their viewpoint they could make out a sea of dark shapes moving towards crimson-clad Jomon soldiers. Bright flashes of metal caught in the afternoon sun. Woodrot reeled, "But -we're- going straight for the gremlin right? Gimme a minute and I'll track down his position!..."\par
     "Uh... yes, that's unusually cooperative of you."\par
     "Mmm-hmm, riiight. Yep, OK, I've got you... Pox is definitely that-a-way!"\par
     Matthius followed the direction of Woodrot's outstretched arm, "Due West? Why would it go West, it's a massive detour from the route to its master's prison and there's nothing but agricultural lands and scrub..." The wizard glanced at the sprite. "..."\par
     "That way!" he nodded again vigorously with a strained smile.\par
     "You are -lying-!" Matthius gasped with fury.\par
     "I'm not stepping foot on that battlefield! I'm out ...this has nothing to do with me!"\par
     "There is no 'out'! The safety of the entire \i world \i0 depends on us catching the gremlin before it frees its master! Now which way did it go?"\par
     But Woodrot was throwing a full-blown tantrum, he spun his chubby arms in circles and kicked at the ground until the wizard had to haul him up by the scruff of the neck. "Nooo! You can't make me!"\par
     "You have far more to fear from me, than some Yogon scavenger! \b Where is the gremlin?\b0 "\par
     "Nuh-uh!" he squealed, "Not this time!"\par
     "...have you considered how you would spend the reward money?" asked Matthius changing tack and trying to appeal to his greed. "All those bags of gold would buy a lot of fine food and drink. You'd be rich..." . \par
     "...huh?...well no...but..."\par
     "Argh!", Matthius shouted with frustration, "And you may ride on my back."\par
     The offer was finally too good for the vain wood sprite to refuse, "You got yourself a deal!".\par
     "Very well," Matthius fumed darkly. "Let's see if we can \b finish \b0 this before the last shreds of my dignity are spent."\par
     "Yeeha!", Woodrot yelled madly, leaping onto the wizard's shoulders and clinging on for dear life. "Full speed ahead!"\par
     "Please Pyrhha, may no-one see me like this," Matthius silently prayed.\par
     Suddenly the air was split by the sound of galloping hooves, "Lord Magamura!" a booming, noble voice called out. Matthius winced. They turned to see an exquisitely armored knight sweeping towards them on a majestic black horse. "Have you come to lend your might to the battle? We prevail, but it is more than welcome!", called the knight pulling the reins so that his steed kicked up mud and stopped just inches away from them.\par
     "Grand General Nin'gyo, it is always an honor to fight in your name." Matthius struggled to stand upright as Woodrot wriggled on his back, but the General seemed not to notice.\par
     "The damn Yogon..." growled Ning'yo in his inimitable gruff and gravelly voice, "I've never seen them come this close to our territory." Then grinning, "They surged toward our forces at noon and tooth and claw they've been putting up a fierce fight. But moments ago the monsters began to scatter, it seems they suddenly lost a little of their battle thirst!"\par
     "The holy shield had been disturbed, your excellency, it has only just been restored."\par
     "What? Do you seek to put the Grand General in your debt again, Magamura?" he demanded, sternly.\par
     "I - I seek only to protect the people of Jomon..."\par
     "OH-HYA-HYAA! 'Tis a joke, Magamura. I might have taken you as a lieutenant long ago, if only your, uh... esoteric ...skills weren't needed in so many other areas. Come, To Arms! But take caution, some sickly strange rodent is aiding the monsters. Just moments ago it knocked the mystic Halcyon Blade from my hands and turned it stone!"\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
The encounters that followed as they charged across the waving fields of flax were both swift and, from Woodrot's point of view, terrifying. Amongst the din and confusion of the abating battle, Matthius spied several tablets that Pox had created, although the gremlin itself was nowhere in sight. Eager to pursue it before it could put too much distance between them, Matthius wielded both his sword and the magic wand with a newfound vigor.\par
     One tablet burst to release the startled Jomon flagbearer from Pox's magic. The province's classic red, white and yellow flag immediately caught in the breeze, unfurling at the end of the bearer's long pole, "Hold the Jomon standard high," Matthius reassured him quickly, "The tide is already turning!"\par
    Another contained a young Jomon footsoldier who had been in the thick of the battle when Pox had trapped him. His crimson uniform was splattered in mud, and although he was unhurt, he was wide-eyed and panicking. "Steel yourself!" the red wizard commanded quickly, "Our victory is assured!"\par
     "This way!", urged Woodrot. "Giddy up, hor-"\par
     "Do \b not \b0 finish that sentence if you wish to live!" warned Matthius.\par
     They flew across uneven ground, nimbly avoiding the bodies of fallen soldiers, discarded weapons and thick tussocks of grass that threatened to trip them up. There were no Yogon bodies... it seemed the rumors were true and those fleeing had carried their dead away with them. Jomon's finest were holding their own with Penitence's magic helping to push the darkness back into the shadows, and so Matthius forged on after his quarry, stopping only to destroy glyphs. The next had a much more deadly surprise.\par
     "Yaargh! What's that?!" yelled Woodrot, from atop the wizard's shoulders as a hunched form emerged from the magical tablet's dust shower. At first glance it could be mistaken for a large, hulking animal with thick, black and brown banded fur and glinting dark eyes, like a Tanuki (somewhere between a large racoon and a badger). It was soon apparent that something was very wrong with that idea; its bulky shape, patches of fur that didn't match up... a glimpse of deathly white skin between the loose folds...\par
     "Fssss!", the Yogon twisted unnaturally to face the wizard and hissed like a cornered cat.\par
     "YOGON! Kill it kill it kill it!" the sprite squealed.\par
     "There you are free, fiend." boomed Matthius in a voice of pure confidence, "Now let me help you the rest of the way! \i Yoish!"\i0  <SLASH> With a flash of motion, the blade flying so fast that Woodrot couldn't see it pass through the space inbetween, Matthius freed the Yogon of its head too. Its body falling to the ground in a heap.\par
     On they ran, as the vegetation beneath Matthius' feet became less green and vibrant. Soft breezes carried ash here from the volcano making the soil less hospitable. Akuyama rose above them dramatically, no longer just a part of the horizon.\par
     Another glyph solved and Matthius found himself holding the mystic-blade that Nin'gyo had mentionned earlier. He twirled it from hand to hand, slicing at the air - the balance was perfect. This gleaming sabre had been handed down Nin'gyo's family line since his ancestor had first lead the remains of the Jomon army in the years after Kazenagi's defeat. The days of Emperors were long gone, but some traditions remained. "General, your blade!" called Matthius as the rider banked around and caught the weapon. "HA! It is a pleasure to fight alongside you, Magamura! I shall enjoy hunting the last few Yogon all the more with my favorite sword!"\par
     The shadowy shapes of the enemy were scattering and being chased Northward as Matthius tackled the last of the tablets that Pox had left in his escape. Luckily, the wizard had not dropped his guard - the gremlin had saved the worst for last:\par
     No two members of the blighted, Yogon tribes look exactly the same - they clothe themselves in roughly hacked animal skins, protecting their own pale flesh from the sun, and whenever possible they scavenge the armor from dead Ryudo warriors. They also come in many shapes and \i sizes\i0 , and the one that now sprang from the glyph tablet was huge!\par
     "Hah, a Yogon Berserker! It is time I was faced with something more challenging!", shouted Matthius assuredly, but leaping back to give himself enough room to fight.\par
     "Ruuuun awaaaaaay!!! Ya! Ya!" Woodrot shouted as he dug his feet into Matthius sides and bounced up and down.\par
     The beast was perhaps 7 feet tall but crouched over onto its hands and knees. It slowly faced the pair and opened its jagged maw of a mouth to exhale a harsh roar of wet, stinking air that blasted them in the face. Although it may have once been a man, it was impossible to pity such a nigthmarish creature. The kindest option, the only option, was to stop it before it stopped you!\par
     "Foul beast, you dishonor the armor of the warriors that you wear! Allow me to remove it!" cried Matthius before striking forwards with his blade. The Yogon casusally deflected the blow off its shoulder plate in a shower of hot sparks, then lunged back viciously.\par
     Woodrot screamed, "I-i-i can't look!"\par
     "Ho, he's fast!" Matthius narrowly dodged the Berserker, eyebrows raised, as it snapped at his sword arm.\par
     "Hit him some more!"\par
     "HAHAHA, do you intend to tickle me with that wand, little wizard?"\par
     "No, I intend to claim your head with this -Sword-!"\par
     As the beast leapt again Matthius twirled aside like a matador, this time letting it fly past him. Then, while it was glancing around trying to relocate its target, he held his Ryudo sword aloft, pointing it towards the sun, and with the words "ARMA FLAM!" the blade burst into gushing, red flames. "Yoiiiiiishhh!!! -" his fire-blade trailed flames through the air.\par
     The Yogon roared in anger but it was dead before it hit the ground.\par
     \par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\cf4\fs16\par
\cf0\fs22\par
"Run! Yes, closer to Pox we are getting.Mmmm! Run you must!" (yoda impression)\par
     Matthius gave the battlefields one last sweeping, sideways glance, "I think that's the last of the tablets, and the battle falls behind us. Praise Pyrrha, Jomon is victorious!" \par
     "More to the North <smack> I said North! ... here, grab me one of those sticks and I'll keep you on target."\par
     "I think... " said Matthius, "that I've had quite enough of this."\par
     "Whoa!!!" yelled Woodrot as the wizard suddenly stopped in his tracks. The sprite tumbled from his shoulders, rolled head over heels across the grass and eventually came to a halt upside down. "Hey, what are you doing throwing me off?! We aren't there yet!" he said getting up crossly.\par
     "If you think, little troll, that I'm carrying you up Mt. Aku on my back then you will be sadly disappointed!". Matthius massaged his shoulders as he straightened up and then marched towards the Westward path at the base of the mountain.\par
     "Up there?"\par
     "I assume you are sufficiently well rested, and will not be needing any kind of extra incentive? My fire-sword is still nice and hot..."\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER SEVEN   \b0 - Bait and Trap -\par
\par
\i0 Woodrot wheezed heavily as they trotted up the stony path. "Apply yourself! We have only been walking for a few minutes!" growled Matthius.\par
     "Gotta <huff>, g-gotta rest <huff huff>. I'll wait here. <huff>"\par
     "If I didn't \i need \i0 you to travel with me, do you think I would have suffered your company for even one moment?!" he said, beginning to lose his temper."Move your feet."\par
     "It's alright for you up there. Look there's steam coming out of the ground! I'm getting cooked like a snow pea."\par
     "Welcome to Akuyama, just be glad today is not an erupting day. And try not to step on any fire frogs." Matthius swooped onwards in long strides, trying to ignore the grating sound of the wood sprite's complaints. The hot fog that famously clung to these higher paths of the volcano billowed and curled in the wake of his cloak.\par
     "Come on Woodrot, just think of the reward money..." said the sprite, egging himself on. "You're in a beautiful stump the size of a palace. All your friends and family are around you - they're bowing and scraping, serving your food, cleaning your boots -Hahahaa!" he chuckled evilly.\par
     "Iredeemable fool," the wizard muttered. "Pick up your feet, I don't intend to let the gremlin escape again! Now, which way is it?".\par
     "Yeah, the golden goose! He came along here alright, look-."\par
     "- more glyphs," finished the wizard. They'd stopped at a sooty fork in the path where thick clouds were issuing up from out of the mountain. Pox's usual trademark tablet sat on the ground next to a cluster of fumaroles, steam-gushing lava spouts.\par
     "Left or right?" demanded Matthius after he had un-Poxed a carved, stone signpost from the magical puzzle.\par
     Woodrot scratched red lichen from the its surface to read the names, "'Joyful View Walk', or 'Cleft-foot Precipice'?" drawled Woodrot, then he glanced up towards the glow of at the volcano's peak. His tracking senses were fuzzier than usual, it was as if something powerful nearby was interfering with them, but all the same he could pick up the gremlin's trail. "...ugh... Do you want to take a wild guess?"\par
     "He wants to do this the hard way? So be it."\par
     As they continued Woodrot practically skipped along with his thoughts returning to the rewards, "...First thing I'm going to do with the money: build my own massive restaurant! Chez Woodrot. It'll have an army of chefs and dancing girls, and just one table." His ruddy face screwed up into a blissful smirk. "Of course I'll have to level most of Everberry first to make way..." he mused. "Maybe I can hire a few dragons - it'd only be an afternoon's work. Pricey tho'. Hey egghead, you're good at burning stuff, right?"\par
     "Conceited... contemptible..." Matthius couldn't help but mutter. The sprite was really getting under his skin.\par
     Leaving Akuyama's gentler slopes behind them they followed the incline of Pox's path as it spiraled around the North side of the volcano. At first Woodrot had dimly hoped that its 'Precipice' name had been a colorful exaggeration but it was already becoming difficult to navigate themselves along the thin path hewn from the rockface. There were all manner of obstacles that made their progress even harder; old, dark rivers of cooled lava jutted out in strange forms (some of which looked unnervingly like faces) and there was loose rubble underfoot. Then, beside a sheer, vertical drop that caused even Matthius' hands to get a little clammy, they found yet another tablet perched in a natural crook in the rocky path. Weary but adamant not to show the slightest sign of weakness to his repugnant companion, Matthius worked his magic to restore whatever Pox had so recently attacked.\par
     "Ha-haha-ha! He got you there, sucker!" bawled Woodrot as a 10 foot tall boulder crashed from the floating tablet and completely blocked their way.\par
     "Hnnngh! Infuriating... malicious..." Matthius mouthed.\par
     "Now how are we going to get around that!", chortled the wood sprite.\par
     "A mere pebble...", said Matthius resolutely. "Yoisho!", he planted his shoulders against the base of the boulder and strained.\par
     "That's it, push. Dig your feet in."\par
     "YoiSHO!!"\par
     "Lift with the knees!"\par
     "\i Nggggh\i0 !" Matthius pushed with all of his might, and with veins straining on his temple he valiantly managed to leverage the boulder just enough for it to slowly begin to topple from the path. It careened down the side of the mountain crashing off other rocks with a sound like cannon fire.\par
     "See, there you go. I've got the brains and you've got the brawn. What a team. Well, let's hurry up and bag the bounty."\par
     "..." Matthius bit his tongue hard and concentrated intently on clapping the dust off his hands. He was genuinely afraid of what he'd do to the sprite if he allowed himself to \i really \i0 lose his temper. The image of sending him cartwheeling off the moutain-side, just like the boulder, was all too tempting.\par
     They climbed higher and higher and although their death defying journey, hopping between precarious rock ledges, was hardly the perfect opportunity to savor the view, Jomon and all the lands beyond were laid out like a majestic tapestry. Below them Akuyoshida looked like a child's painted, wooden toy. To the North the grim, mountain peaks concealing the Yogon's dark, cavernous monasteries were a murky smear on the horizon, icy grey thunderheads beyond suggested the cold wastes that were home to Edizon's prison were not so far away, and the air was clear enough that a sparkle to the South could even have been the spires of Thaumhaven's Arcana Library catching in the afternoon sunlight. For a brief moment Woodrot surveyed the scene. From up here Akuyama felt like the centre of the world, he felt a surge of pride and desire - soon he'd be rich, famous and impossibly pampered, everything was going his way!\par
     He turned back around and found himself face to face with a slim, bony-faced mountain goat with a straggly black beard. It narrowed its eyes and let out an offended baa-ing sound. "Hey Flameykins, what are you hanging around for - we've got places to be." He mimed an over the top double-take, "What?! There are two of you!"\par
     "Hurumph." grunted the wizard, who had just freed the trapped Hoot-foot Yagi, mountain goat from a tablet. The goat snorted and then bounded away, kicking up bright embers from its glowing hooves.\par
     "Ohhh!", said Woodrot with mock realisation, "Oh, -that's- you. It's an easy mistake to make." The sprite guffawed gleefully. "I told you before, that flea infested beard, it - <hurk!>"\par
     "Do - not - mock - the - beard," Matthius said flatly, holding Woodrot up to his eye level.\par
     "Sheesh, alright alright! Put me down you big loon."\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab *****\par
\par
"Here, the Summit! The Plateau of Fire. Follow me up quickly," barked Matthius, "but don't get too close to the crater." Woodrot followed him, scrambling up over the edge onto flat ground and as he brushed lazily at the sooty, black stains on the knees and elbows of his green suit the two of them looked around.\par
     "Gah! There is no sign of him," said Matthius angrily, craning his neck to see past the thick clouds of acrid fog that were belching up from the volcanic core. The ground rumbled and vibrated underneath their feet as if they were standing on a giant's noisy belly. "Locate him!"\par
     Woodrot squinted, "I'm... I'm not sensing anything. Either we're too close to this elementary heart thingamajig that you mentionned earlier, or the gremlin's legged it again."\par
     Matthius visibly stooped over, his anger finally giving way to exhaustion. "No..." He was breathing heavily with a dejected look in his eyes. Then he raised his head and forced himself upright, digging deeper into his inner reserves of strength, "... I will \i not fail\i0 . Fires of Akuyama hear me!" With a crack and a boom that shook the whole mountain, a column of flames gushed from the wide crater in a 50 metres tall fountain of light and noise. "Come and get me gremlin!" Matthius shouted, over the fiery roar. "I am right here..."\par
     "Look, I've been thinking," Woodrot suddenly piped up. "This whole 'catching Pox' thing is a hopeless case, the real deal is probably already miles away, but here's the thing- ... who else but us knows what one looks like? Aha-ha! What if, " he smiled a most self-satisfied smile, "we catch a rabbit, you blow it into furry smithereens, and we take the smoking remains back for the reward money!" He clapped his hands and gestured at Matthius with open arms, waiting for his applause.\par
     Matthius was silent, still glancing around earnestly, as the spouting flames began to diminish.\par
     "It's genius! Foolproof! ... What, is it offending your finer sensibilites? Ok, at least tell me what \i you \i0 think is wrong my brilliant plan! Come ON!"\par
     Matthius turned slowly and set his eyes on Woodrot. "The eagle does not catch flies," he said darkly.\par
     "Don't give me that Ry\f1\'fb\f0 do rubbish again! This is important, bullethead, it's about me getting my just rewards! I want my gold!"\par
     Matthius jerked around, fixed the sprite with a dark, penetrating stare and smiled. "There is \b no \b0 reward money, you slavering kobold."\par
     "Nooo!" Woodrot gasped and clapped his hands over his mouth. "Take it back! That's not true!"\cf2\fs24\par
     "I do not enjoy lying, but it was the only way I could get your useless hide this far. We fight for the fate of the world, not to line our pockets with gold, goblin!"\par
     "AAARGH!" he yelled madly. "STOP CALLING ME GOBLIN OR KOBOLD OR DUNG-FAIRY..."\par
     "Dung-fairy? That's a good one..."\par
     "I - AM - ..."\par
     "Woodrot, the wood-sprite." finished Matthius sourly, to the sprite's amazement. "Yes, I know full well - but it makes no difference what I call you, you will never show the world one ounce of respect!"\par
     "I don't owe the \i world \i0 anything!"\par
     "Always so carefree! No responsiblities, no aspirations."\par
     "None of my business! -" yelled Woodrot. For a second he was distracted, he thought he had glimpsed something out of the corner of his eye.\par
     "This is \i all \i0 of our business!" Matthius shouted like an inferno, oblivious now to everything else. "But you are too rude and undisciplined to see! You are petty, lazy, -"\par
     As Matthius blasted the sprite with all of his pent up grievances, the gremlin, Pox, creeped towards them from the opposite side of Akuyama's flat peak. It crowed to itself softly, urging itself on towards the wizard's turned back. Its brown fur scraped the dirt as it stalked along nearly flat to the ground, "Gaooogh!"\par
     "-obnoxious, vacuous, selfish-" Matthius was continuing.\par
     "Bah! You're wrong, you crimson buffoon! You don't know me!" Woodrot shouted back.\par
     Pox opened its wild eyes wider and the corners of its mouth twisted into a snarl of pleasure as it rounded on its prey. "Yes, my creature. Creep, creeeep closer!" Edizon's insistent voice echoed inside its head, commanding it forward.\par
     "Grrrr-aaogh!" Pox growled quietly.\par
     "In one day I have learned everything about you that I would ever care to, you waste of a life!" Matthius was booming at Woodrot. "You blight on the name of wood-sprites!" The wizard was raging now, waving his arms emphatically in the air.\par
     "The wand!" Edizon barked in Pox's mind, watching through the gremlin's eyes. "Yes my pet! Seize the \i wand \i0 and nothing will ever stand in my way again! Do it, do it now! Attack!!!" Pox bounded forward.\par
     In the moments that followed, time seemed to slow to a crawl. Woodrot, one moment equally as furious as Matthius, suddenly felt a lurch in his tracking senses and turned his head, dumbfounded, to see Pox standing barely a few feet away! Ash was floating down lazily, drifting sideways between them and the creature. The gremlin's bulbous eyes were fixed on Matthius' fist and it was raising a furry claw, extending its long forefinger to point at the wand .\par
     Woodrot let out a tiny gasp of surprise.\par
     "You will never act beyond the blind, self-centered, vile little world that you inhabit!" shouted Matthius.\par
     Woodrot watched as Pox howled triumphantly and a bright, writhing charge of energy passed along his finger and shot towards the Methusaleh's creation. Beside him, Matthius' voice was trailing off and he was beginning to turn but it wouldn't be anywhere near fast enough. Matthius' outburst of accusations was still echoing in his head, "You're W-r-o-n-g,  B-u-l-l-e-t-h-e-a-d-!-!-!" Woodrot gasped defiantly, and with barely the time to register his own astonishment, he found himself leaping forward.\par
     The Fire wizard wheeled around, his cloak swirling behind, just in time to see the wood sprite and the spell collide in mid-air. There was a blinding flash, a glimpse of Woodrot's shocked face turning into stone and being engulfed into a compact tablet. But instead of dropping to the ground, as perhaps Woodrot might have intended - if any kind of plan had the chance to form in his mind in the split seconds before - the force with which the sprite had leapt took the tablet onward through the air. It sailed in a high arc out of Matthius' reach. Both wizard and gremlin watched it as its momentum carried it towards the lip of the crater, it bounced once - and then plummetted into the heart of the volcano.\par
     Matthius tracked the stone as it fell through the steam and smoke, bathed in an orange glow, and disappeared down into the lake of lava beneath. He reeled in shock, "Stubborn little!-"\par
     Pox, recovering from the recoil of his first energy charge, turned on the wizard ready to attack again. Matthius was quicker - "Gremlin, you will pay!" He thrust his hands forward and a almighty explosion of fire erupted at the gremlin's feet as it tried to leap clear. Dusty debris clattered off Matthius' robes and obscured his vision for vital seconds as he struggled to catch another glimpse of brown fur and fangs...\par
     "<cough cough>" Matthius waved at the air. "Gone..." he said quietly. He was alone.\par
\cf4\fs16\par
\cf0\fs22\par
\par
\b\i CHAPTER EIGHT   \b0 - Resolutions / Beginnings -\par
\i0\par
Twilight. The edge of Ghorewood at the North Eastern boundary of Jomon. Matthius trekked through the dusky undergrowth deep in his own thoughts, clutching the wand in his right hand more tightly than ever. As he strolled under a dark canopy of knotted thorn-tree boughs, he was serenaded by the first croaky, grumblings of Night Scuttlers waking from their daily slumber. He looked up, surprised at his surroundings - suddenly aware for the first time that he'd been walking for hours and that infront of him stood the doorway to a WizLab, slightly ajar.\par
     "Geneva?" Matthius called out hesistantly, stepping through the leathery door into the gloom of the chamber-like room beyond it. "Are you here?", his voice echoed unnaturally as a draft from the doorway stretched the flames of pale pink candles sitting on a wrought-iron desk. Every inch of the room seemed to have been the result of a decoration battle between two very different personalities; gothic architecture and unsettlingly gruesome magical artifacts clashed with lace cushions and delicate silver vases of fresh wildflowers.\par
     "Of course you're here..." Matthius said stonily, his eyes settling on a nearby tablet, "...Edizon would not fail to send his gremlin after a sorceress as powerful as you."\par
     As had been the case on several occassions before, when Pox had attacked Howard, Judith and Matthius himself, the first things to be found were a few personal items that had been turned to tablets:\par
     An ornate silver mirror, decorated with tiny cherubs around the glass and a devilish looking, horned worm on the handle.\par
     A squat, wide mouthed shrunken head! A tarnished brass plaque on the wooden platform it rested on labelled it as the Oracle of Whispers. It opened its wrinkled eyes and stared at Matthius for a moment before lapsing back, presumably into sleep. He decided not to examine it too closely.\par
     A smoking bunch of Morphean incense sticks. He'd noticed a lingering scent when he first entered the room, but now its powerful perfume pervaded the air, threatening to make him drowsy. He was forcefully reminded of how tired the day's travails had made him.\par
     A flare-wasp, it buzzed excitedly, letting out small wisps of smoke as Matthius freed it from the glyph. He knew this creature well, he had caught it for Geneva himself only last month, much to her delight. \par
     And last of all, lying in an adjoining room, he found a larger tablet unlike any he'd seen before. It pulsed with a strong, vermillion glow and as he raised Vanglorian to levitate it from the floor, both the wand and the tablet hummed in resonation. He knew at once that its contents must be powerful - and precious.\par
     Matthius fixed himself on unweaving the glyph as fast as he could manage, and although once or twice his jabs with wand were uncharacteristically ill-placed, causing it to sap his energy even further, he doggedly persevered until it was beaten. The tablet burst like chalk and a slim figure stepped from within.\par
     There was only one possible way to describe Geneva: a dark beauty. Her jet black hair fell down to her shoulders in gleaming ringlets, dashed through with occasional red streaks. Her eyes were equally dark, although they glinted attractively in the dim lighting, and her tall, slight figure was draped from her neck to the floor in an artfully tattered, black leather cloak.\par
     "Well, that was a curious sensation" she trilled excitedly, before turning around. "Lord Matthius!" she said, her deep, crimson lips pursing together into a smile, "What are you doing here? Are you hurt, you look... well, awful?"\par
     "It has been a long day, the battles have been many and ...", he paused, considering what to say. "...I lost my dog." he finished, deciding that he did not want to talk about the events at Akuyama.\par
     "Your dog died? You've never said you have a dog?"\par
     "In a manner of speaking..." Matthius cleared his throat and hurried to explain the situation at hand, "Geneva when I entered, you were trapped inside a magical tablet. With this wand I am chasing the one responsible, a gremlin called Pox who is working for that empire-hungry fool, Edizon."\par
     "Ooh, the Vanglorian! Oban Methusaleh's wand of power, may I hold it?" she said brightly.\par
     "There's no time, if you are safe then I must continue - finish what I started."\par
     "You're exhausted." she frowned.\par
     "I am - fine!" he stuttered weakly, but his legs were betraying him. He sloped against the wall, trying to look as if he were casually resting there for a moment, but it wasn't convincing anyone.\par
     "Don't think I can't see you're leaning there for support. You can barely stand!" she admonished him. "Hand it to me, Matthius. This is my territory, and the night is my time, after all."\par
\cf4\fs18      \cf2\fs22 The fire-wizard grimaced and sat rather heavily onto a grim looking metal chair which Geneva had brightened up with a tasselled, flowery cushion. "I'm not beaten!"\par
     "Of course you're not -beaten-. But I've been dying for a good fight, just point me in the right direction!"\par
     Matthius glared awkwardly, deciding whether his honor was intact and then said "- Very well, the quest is yours."\par
     Geneva glanced at her reflection in the wall mirror and smiled wildly, "This is so exciting! I'll leave at once!"\par
     Matthius glanced at her again, feeling troubled. "Geneva, I..." he began haltingly.\par
     "Don't worry, I can handle myself."\par
     "I \i know \i0 you can, it is not that. I - I wanted to say - I have the heart of a warrior. I am inclined to be harsh even to those closest to me, today certain events made me recognise... I am too severe... For all of my skills with fire, I am - cold."\par
     "Matthius, I understand. It's just... that's your nature."\par
     " Yes, and... no, it's not right. I wanted to say: I don't want to be that way - forever." He squirmed uncomfortably in his seat.\par
     Geneva looked at her friend curiously. "... alright." She smiled. "Perhaps we should talk more about this when I return."\par
     "<cough> Yes! Well...", he flapped, "give him hell. You should be able to find the gremlin by his trail of chaos, but if all fails then seek out hot spices, he is attracted to them like a moth to a flame!"\par
     "A moth to a flame - okay, I can relate to that," she smiled enigmatically.\par
\par
\par
\b\i TO BE CONTINUED\b0\i0\par
\par
\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
"You ask me why I dwell in the green\par
mountain;\par
I smile and make no reply for my heart is free\par
of care.\par
As the peach blossom which flows\par
downstream and is gone into the unknown,\par
I have a world apart that is not among men." - Li Po\par
}
 