{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green128\blue128;\red127\green127\blue127;\red128\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\lang2057\ul\b\f0\fs22 Hero Glyphix - Journey 7\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\ulnone "Northward Ho!" - \b0 Kara's Journey\b\par
\par
\b0 This is the final, full Journey of our Hero Glyphix adventure. It follows on from Geneva's dark and heavy tale, so something light and , uh, light is the called for. And that makes Kara, Princess of Wind the perfect lead character! It's going to be very welcome to wind (ahahaha) the game down with a festive feel, and someone who's funny, confident, flaky and surprising.\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Wizlab Kara\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\cf3\b  \cf0\b0 Kara storms into her gleaming Wizlab finding it has been invaded by Pox.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (angry-curious)  "No. He wouldn't -DARE-!"\par
KARA: (worry) "Oh no, my pretty home! What's that twerp been doing to my stuff?"\par
KARA: (fuming) "Ooooh! He's left his gremlin droppings everywhere!"\par
KARA: (melodramatic upset, head back, mouth wide open, wobbly bubble) "That's disgusting!!!"\par
KARA: (cute shock) "W-wait, where's Kii Kii! KII KII??? Are you hiding?"\par
KARA: (worry) "Are you trapped in one of these stone droppings?!"\par
KARA: (determined, shaking the wand at the glyphs) "*huff* Okay wand, do your thing! Go!"\par
KARA: (angry holding up the wand and looking at it) "Do it! Why aren't you doing it?"\par
KARA: (rolling eyes) "Alright... *sigh* ...silly wand, I'll -help- you figure out how to break the spells."\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Hair clip\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (fuming) "Ooooh!!...you don't touch a girl's STUFF!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Wind Chimes\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (cute) "Such a pretty sound. (musical note)"\par
KARA: (eyes up, smile) "*ting* *tinkly-ting* *ting* (musical note)"\par
KARA: (very loud, loud bubble) "Grraa! I'll show that twerp what happens when he messes with something DELICATE!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Miniature golem\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (waving) "Hey stompy!"\par
MINI GOLEM: "*stomp* - * stomp* - *stomp*"\par
KARA: (giggling)  "Heeheehee! He's still going! I found you a whole year ago, didn't I stompy?"\par
MINI GOLEM: (looking up) "Rrrg? *stomp* - *stomp* - *stomp*"\par
KARA: "That's right. You used to belong to Edizon, but now you're mine! (heart) And you're a lot more fun since I shrank you."\par
MINI GOLEM: (sad) "*stomppp* - *stomppp*"\par
KARA: (telling off) "Well you shouldn't have been so naughty, trying to take over the world. That's why those boy wizards had to stop you all."\par
KARA: (eyes closed, proud smile) "Of course, I would have helped, but they had it covered."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Bird seed\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (worried curious) "Kii Kii's favorite super-tweety brand."\par
KARA: (really worried) "Oh I hope he's okay, how many of these do I have to solve before I find him???"\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Kii Kii (like the Wizard portraits, it's only available after the previous four have been played - then given a color reveal when solved)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (super happy, loud) "*Gasp!* KII KII!"\par
KII KII: (also super happy) "Kiii - kiii!"\par
KARA: (very, very cross) "I can't believe that stinkball turned you into a doorstop!"\par
KII KII: (Kii Kii mirrors the emotion, stamping up and down) "Kiii-p!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720\cf4 Show the bond between Kii Kii and Kara]\cf0\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard\li1136\cf4 KARA: "Kii Kii, Up!"\par
KII KII: (hops onto her shoulder) "*hop*"\par
KARA: (telling off) "That's the last time I leave you here."\par
KII KII: (Kii Kii cheeps questioningly)."Kii-ii?"\par
KARA: (pout) "I don't care if you're busy hunting crickets, from now on you only leave my shoulder to go poopy".\par
KARA & KII KII (the chick nuzzles her neck) "Aw..."\cf0\par
KARA: "Well this settles it."\par
KARA: (cross) "\cf4 Mr Gremlin doesn't know who he's messing with! I'm going to hit him so hard with this wand, they'll hear the SQUISH in Thaumhaven!"\par
KII KII: (solemn) "Kiiiii-p."\par
KARA: (eyes narrowed, quiet) "That's right, the naughty lightning wizard behind all this is going to wish he never got -us- caught up in his schemes."\par
KARA: (scary face, darker portrait background, loud) "Edizon, I'm your worst nightmare!"\par
KARA: (smile) "Let's go. It's time for Kara, Princess of the Winds..."\par
KII KII: "Kiii!"\par
KARA: (exuberant pose, kinda goofy, hair whipping about) "...-and- her kestrel chick, to blow - them - AWAY!"\cf0\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Snowbie Village\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf4 Kara begins her search for Pox.\cf3  \cf4 She nears the Snowbie village, a white, wonderland of a town (at about 1/3 scale).\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (determined) "LA La la, here we go. Through wind and snow, Northward Ho! (musical note)"\par
\cf5\fs18 (note, it would be nice if Kara's travelling theme could seem to fit these lyrics)\fs20\par
\cf4\par
KARA: "Ohhh! Look it's Snowbie Ville. We haven't come here for years, Kii Kii! I'd forgotten how pretty it all is!" (Happy) \par
KARA: "It's like St. Picklemas*\cf6\fs16  \cf4\fs20 everyday!" \cf6\fs16 (* the OTT equivalent of Xmas)\cf4\fs20  \par
KARA: (overcome with cuteness) "The sweet trees, the glisteny lights, the cutest little houses... the musical crunch of snow underfoot! (musical_note)" \par
SNOWBIE: (under her foot, the source of the crunch) "Eeeeek!!" \par
KARA: (grin, slight blush) "Oopsie, I'm sorry! (heart)"\par
KARA: "Huh? What's this?"\par
\pard\par
\cf7 Puzzles\cf4\par
\par
(1) Red Hat\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "Here, is this your red hat, cutie?"\par
SNOWBIE: (putting on the hat, big smile) "...!"\par
\par
\par
KARA: (surprise) "Oh, and now there are a lot more of you."\par
SNOWBIES: (huddling together) " 'Hi!'    'Visitors!'   'Greetings human!' "\par
KARA: "Hi-ee, little guys! Have you seen a brown, fuzzy looking..."\par
SNOWBIES: "  'Welcome friend!'  'Whee!'  'Hey you!'  'Let me see!' "\par
KARA: "I said... Um, who's in charge here? Now, don't push!"\par
SNOWBIES: " 'Welcome welcome!'  'Ooh a birdie!'  'Ngh!'  ''  '*giggle*!'  'Come this way!  'Gree-'"\par
KARA: (boiling over with rage, loud) "QUIET YOU ALBINO MIDGETS!" \par
SNOWBIES: "..." (the Snowbies fall deadly silent, leaning back)\par
KARA: "O-kay, one at a time... where - is - the gremlin?"\par
SNOWBIES: " 'I see'd him by the...'  'Zap here, zap there!'  'Fuzzy! Fuzzy brown!'  'This way.' ' No, he that way!'  'Yes YES!'  'Gremlin crazy!'  "\par
KARA: "GaAagh!!!!" (Kara flips out, WHACK!)\par
SNOWBIES: Snowbies go flying in all directions. "'Eeeek!'    'Eech!'    'Eeeeeee!  'Eee-Eeek!"\par
KARA: "*huff huff*" (Kara looks a little crazy before regaining her composure) \par
KARA: (brushing her bangs aside) "You! Red hat!"\par
RED HAT SNOWBIE: "?" (trembling, with a small excited smile)\par
KARA: "Where did the Gremlin go?" she asks, icily.\par
RED HAT SNOWBIE: Points nervously off to the right.\par
KARA: "Thank you sweetie." she says cheerfully.\par
RED HAT SNOWBIE: Responding to her smile, the red hat Snowbie launches into a suicidal outburst "Uh, uh, uh! - Are you a 'person'? Where do you live, you like Snowbie village? Here, come see the big, big tree and the -"\par
KARA: "HYA!" <WHACK!> \par
RED HAT SNOWBIE: "EEeeeeee---..." (sails off into the distance) \par
KARA: (cute wave) "Go play with your friends!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Snowbie Factory\cf4\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "So Mr Gremlin came -this- way did he? *gasp*"\par
KARA: "Oh -yeah-! This is the Snowbies' secret Magic SugarCandy factory!" (The kestrel chick mimics her surprise, on her shoulder) \par
KARA: "Kii Kii, they've been making this for -hundreds- of years! It was my absolute, favorite treat as a kid!"\par
KII KII: "Kii?"\par
KARA: "Now Kii Kii, you don't ask a girl's age."\par
KARA: "...Look there. Stuff for the wand to fix."\par
KARA: (mouth open smile, wand extended) "GOoooo wand!!!"\par
KARA: (mouth open smile, wand extended) "..."\par
KARA: (rolling eyes) "Oh yeah, I have to use my brain too. Whoever came up with that idea. Pff."\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Snowbie supervisor - The chubbiest Snowbie yet, little spectacles and a bit of brush for a moustache demonstrate his seniority.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 SUPERVISOR: (freaking) "What you doing?! Uh --- help!"\par
SUPERVISOR: "Hey, you not the fuzzy man."\par
KARA: (pout) "Do I LOOK like a fuzzy man? NO, I am NOT the FUZZY MAN." \par
KARA: (explaining) "The fuzzy man turned you into a dropping, -I'm- the lovely but daring girl that saved you!"\par
KARA: (sparkles, pretty pose)"Princess Kara!!!"\par
SUPERVISOR: "Uh, okay. Okay, because the fuzzy man causing big trouble in the factory."\par
KARA: "Don't worry your cute lil' head bout it, I'm in charge now."\par
SUPERVISOR: "No! I am Supervisor. I'm in charge."\par
KARA: (angry) "Of fixing things! I'm in charge of FIXING what the fuz--, what the GREMLIN has done here!"\par
KARA: (sweet smile) "So, you just zip it - and sit tight, snowflake. (heart)"\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Jumbo Magic SugarCandy\cf4\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "*giggle* I like these little sweet-making guys."\par
KARA: (to Kii Kii) "Most people don't even know they're real, y'know Kii Kii!"\par
KARA: "They think some kindly old confectioner in Thatchwold cooks the Sugar Candy, and that he -dreamed up- the Snowbies to make the packaging pretty."\par
KARA: "They don't know it's the other way around! *giggle*"\par
\pard\cf0\par
\par
(3) Crates of Magic SugarCandy\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (wonder) "Wow, whole crates of SugarCandy!"\par
KARA: (face_hungry) "I've never seen so much in one place - they sure do make a lot of this stuff."\par
KARA: (sad) "It's too bad a Princess has to watch her figure..."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Giant Termite Worker\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KII KII: (alarmed) "KIII!"\par
KARA: "Don't be scared Kii Kii, I think they've tamed these Giant Termites to help in their factory!"\par
KARA: (eager) "I want one of those!"\par
KII KII: (angry) "Kiii-p!!"\par
KARA: (rolling eyes) "No, I'd never replace you. -Featherbrain-"\par
KARA: (telling off Kii Kii) "(heart) You're my best little guy, forever. (heart)"\par
KARA: (determined) "*sigh* Come on."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Experimental delivery device\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: " 'Over - head - Express.' What's this it just looks like a gi-normous, hu-gantic catapult!?"\par
\pard\par
\par
All solved.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 SNOWBIE SUPERVISOR: "Ohhh! Person, thank you! You saved the day!"\par
KARA: (eyes raised, head turned smile) "It was nothing."\par
SUPERVISOR: "You saved the factory! You saved the factory! Ohhhh!"\par
KARA: (eyes closed, basking in compliments) "Well, maybe I am being too modest."\par
SUPERVISOR: "Oh happy day! Wahoo! The great big person has saved us!!"\par
KARA: (slightly exasperated) "Yeah, okay snowball. That's enough, and I'll have you know I am -petite- as persons go. Uh, people."\par
SUPERVISOR: (hyperactive happy, wobbly) "Wubba wubba wubba!!!"\par
KARA: (stern, loud) "I feel a WHACK coming on! You've got five seconds to tell me where the 'fuzzy man' went!"\par
SUPERVISOR: "The fuzzy man, you chasing him? He use this."\par
KARA: (mild, surprised) "... What, he used your catapult machine? W-why would he do that?"\par
SUPERVISOR: "This is the new! This is my thing! Until now, always the Snowbies use the fuzzy cows to move Candy."\par
KARA: "The fuzzy co-... you mean Woolly Mump-Ox? Yeah, you used those big beasts to haul your Magic SugarCandy to the trade routes, go on."\par
SUPERVISOR: "Old way, slow. This new thing, it ... *fling*. It... pshoooo-oo!"\par
KARA: (exasperated, eyes narrowed) "You're not good with big words are you? You plan to use the catapult to propel deliveries right to their destination?"\par
SUPERVISOR: "Wubba!"\par
KARA: (bored) "And so the gremlin..."\par
SUPERVISOR: "Pshoooo-oooo! That way!"\par
KARA: (shock) "He shot HIMSELF further North?! Right as he glyphed you and the machine."\par
KARA: (wicked grin) "Hah! The weaselly little rat, he thinks he's bought himself a head start!"\par
SUPERVISOR: "Reward! Get in the thing, me send you... PSHOOO-ooo!"\par
KARA: (fits of laughter) "*giggles* Me, get in THAT thing?"\par
KARA: "AWind Princess would -never- travel like that! Besides, there's more to my little Kii Kii here than meets the eye."\par
KARA: (to Kii Kii, quiet) "*whisper* ..."\par
KII KII: (puffed up) "Kiiiik!"\par
KARA & KII KII: (wide shot, the chick hops from her shoulder in a flash of light)\par
KYASTRAL: "*flash!*" (the portrait window is suddenly filled with a gigantic bird, full of power and grace, appearing in a blaze of illumination. Its amber eyes almost seem to glow with strength and wisdom)\par
KARA: (eyes aglow, sincere) "Kyastral! My proud beautiful boy!"\par
KYASTRAL: "KYAAAAaaaa!" (posed magnificently like a King of Eagles)\par
SUPERIVSOR: (awe) "Ooooooh!..."\par
KY: "Kya!" (beak thrusting downwards towards Snowbie)\par
KY: "*glomph*" (Eats him in one bite)\par
KARA: (blank) "..."\par
KY: (chewing) "* crunch* *crunch*"\par
KARA: (smile, eyebrow raised) "Ahem?"\par
KY: "*cruuuuunch*...."\par
SUPERVISOR: (is spat back out, damp and dazed but unharmed)"*Plop* ... ... wurble."\par
KARA: (overjoyed, loud) "Let's -fly!-"\par
\pard\cf4\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Flying\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf4 The location window shows Kara holding on to Kyastral's back as they soar through arctic blue skies, streaked with thin clouds.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA & KYASTRAL: (long shot) "Wheee! Oh, this is where we belong, riding the North wind!"\par
KARA: (face full of wonder) "Above the clouds, above the blizzards dancing across the white canvas of land below us." \par
KARA: (eyes shut, very happy) "We -are- the wind!"\par
KYASTRAL: "KYAAaa-aaaa!"\par
KARA: "...Ky, swoop down if you see Mr Gremlin or any of his magical droppings. There's nowhere he can run that we can't catch him!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles  -  These four puzzles are snowy, festive scenes like you might find on a St. Picklemas card\cf0\par
\par
(1) Snowball fight\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (cross, looking at wand) "Whew, nine spells per puzzle? Does you think I have all day, wand?"\par
KARA & KYASTRAL: (wide shot, smile/grin) "But look at those daft puffballs , fooling around in the snow."\par
KARA: "They may need a WHACK now and then, but they're cuties alright."\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Skiing Snowbie\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (loud) "Coo-ey, up here!"\par
KARA: (shouting, waving arms) "Oh, hey look out for that ro..."\par
KARA: (flinch, eyes narrowed) "Ouch! Sorry. My bad."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Ice skating Snowbies\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "Oh! Everything looks so dainty from up here, like a St.Picklemas toy town."\par
KARA: (musing) "Of course, it pretty much looks like one from the ground too... they're so teeny!"\par
KARA: (intense) "Like marshmallow dolls come to life."\par
KARA: (giggle) "*giggles*"\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Woolly Mump-Ox Herd\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (ooh) "Lookit all those Wooly Musk-Ox. They're heading North too, for the summer I suppose."\par
KARA: "Guess they like it real cold, well it doesn't get any colder than where we're going!"\par
KARA: (laughing) "Heheh! No wonder Edizon wants his pet to bust him out of jail, he must be freezing his ears off."\par
\pard\par
\cf4\par
All solved.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (shouting, cross) "Nggggghh-AAAGH! There's still no sign of him!"\par
KARA & KYASTRAL: (wide shot) "Fly North, faster Ky. Fly!"\par
KARA & KYASTRAL: (wide shot, loud) "FLY!"\par
\pard\cf0\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Hermit peak\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\cf3\b\par
\pard\li1136\cf4\b0 KARA ON KYASTRAL: "Looky, a little man is waving down there. Hee hee, how odd!"\par
KARA: (happy) "Let's go say hi..."\par
KYASTRAL: "Rrrrrrrrr!"\par
KARA: (telling off) "And no eating this one!"\par
WIZENED OLD HERMIT: "Good jelly... visitors?!" (long distance shot, on top of a peak by a ram-shackle hut) \par
HERMIT: "F-Foolish travellers, beware!" (shouts, same long distance shot) \par
HERMIT: (closer view) "You have reached the Northern-most part of the civilised world, NONE MAY PASS into the lands beyond!"\par
KARA: (indignant) "Excuse me?"\par
HERMIT: "A lady! Crivens, I - I haven't seen one of those, one of you, for a long time!"\par
HERMIT: (blush, wobbly) "*cough* *cough* Oh dear, oh dear!"\par
KARA: (eyes narrow) "What's this 'NONE MAY PASS', gramps?"\par
HERMIT: "Y-yes, *ahem* - the speech: 'NONE may pass, lest they face a hiiiiideous death and mangle-ment from the gnashing teeth of a hundred-"\par
KARA: (happy surprise) "Wow, you're wrinkly! Like a shiny walnut!"\par
HERMIT: (amused) "Aha, please pay attention - And my dear, I am 101 years old, wrinkles are a prerequisite."\par
KARA: (concentrating) "I tried getting old once, didn't like it."\par
HERMIT: "Um?... Yes, well the Mythic Spires ahead are no place for a strip of a lass like you."\par
HERMIT: "*Cough* (Oh how does it go? I'm a little out of practice...)  'For the foolish traveler will be rended apart by the wings and claws of despair.'"\par
HERMIT: "'And they will be heard to say with their last breath "Blimey... I've been a proper nelly, I have!' Well, it was something to that effect."\par
KARA: (intense) "-I- am quite possibly the most POWERFUL wizard in the whole of Magus Magna, gramps. Beasties are scared of me, not the other way around."\par
KARA: (telling off) "And your grandaddy was a lot more polite."\par
HERMIT: (taken aback) "Buh? My grandaddy..."\par
KARA: "Come on Ky, we can take care of ourselves. Let's catch that fuzzy freak!"\par
HERMIT: "My .... my most eminent lady sorceress, if it's that gremlin you seek he's barely a league ahead of you!"\par
KARA & KYASTREL: "Thaaaanks! (musical_note)"\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Mythic Spires\cf4\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Switch location to the setting of the hardest puzzles yet\cf3\b\par
\cf4\b0\par
\pard\li1136 KARA &  KYASTRAL: (wide shot, Ky's mouth open) "KYYAAAAA!  AAaaa! aaaaa! aa-"\par
KARA: (grin, surprise) "Mythic Spires! The hunting grounds of the worlds most ancient and dangerous monsters..."\par
KARA: (really worried) "I can only think of one way that naughty Mr Gremlin would try to slow us down here, I do hope things don't get messy!"\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles  -  The puzzles are all huge, 4x4 15s\cf0\par
\par
(1) Megalocanth Dragon - Mightiest of Magus Magna's Dragons (FIRE)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 DRAGON: "HUMAN! You should know better than to step foot here. . ."\par
DRAGON: "You must have a deathwish to front a Megalocanth Dragon in his lair. Well then, soft one, let me grant that wish as I snap you in two!"\par
DRAGON: (ready to pounce, loud) "Hiishshsshhh!"\par
KARA: (hopping into the air next to the dragon & smacking him hard on the nose with Vanglorian) "BAD!"\par
KARA & DRAGON: (dragon is dazed, Kara continue to whack with the wand) "Bad bad bad!"\par
DRAGON: "...Pardons... a -sorceress-. I.. mistook you for a mortal one."\par
KARA: "So you won't be eating me then?"\par
DRAGON: "No."(sour expression) \par
KARA: "*Giggle* That's very cute of you Bertie! (heart)"\par
DRAGON: "*HOOOARRRRAARGH!* I am Drakuthrelda, girl, mightiest of the world's dragonkind and I WILL eat any who forget to show me respect!"\par
KARA: "Even if they now know your -real- name?" she asks coyly.\par
DRAGON: "*!*" (flinches in surprise)\par
DRAGON: "I spoke my secret name ... you wouldn't dare use it?!"\par
KARA: (bored, rolling eyes) "Words have power, Names bind their owners, now you do my bidding, blah blah blah." \par
KARA: (happy) "Don't worry Drakuthrelda, I don't need another pet. Hey Drakuthrelda?"\par
DRAGON: (panicked) "Stop saying it!!! Someone will hear you!!!"\par
KARA: (telling off) "From now on, you will only eat things that have been very naughty!"\par
DRAGON: "...You mean like children who forget to do their chores, and -"\par
KARA: (determined) "Very, -very- naughty! Drakuthrelda, you can only eat bad, evil people!"\par
DRAGON: (immasculated) "...Yes, mistress."\par
KARA: "Ok bye! (musical_note)"\par
DRAGON: (to camera, quiet) "Oh *curse*"\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Rukh - a gigantic bird with two horns on its head, and four humps on its back (AIR)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (looking up, eyes as wide as possible, mouth ajar) "A... a...  a Rukh!"\par
RUKH: (Giant bird dwarfs Ky like a condor to a pidgeon) "..."\par
KARA: (still fixed in that expression, quiet) "The legendary Wind Elemental bird..."\par
KARA: (very worried) "It's looking right at us!"\par
RUKH: (lowers head) "..."\par
KARA: (mouth agape, quiet) "H-hold steady, Ky!..."\par
RUKH: "*whooomph!*" (suddenly launches into the air)\par
KARA: (hair blown about madly in the exhilirating updraft, joy) "Oh my!"\par
KARA: (mouth wide, happy, shouting) "Fly well, brother of the Winds!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Dervish Shoal - A creature like a living river, in the form of a great serpent coiled around a spire(WATER)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "Loook, Ky! I've heard of this but I've never seen it. It's a -"\par
KARA: "Aiee-yurk! YUCK! Get away from me!" (dervies flop past her face, wobbly bubble)\par
KARA: (cross) "When enough of these icky Dervies swarm together you get a Dervish Shoal. They become, like, one -giant- beastie."\par
KARA: (wonder) "The biggest Water Elemental creature in the world!"\par
\cf4 DEVISH SHOAL: "AHA, FOOD!"\par
KARA: "Yikes! It's seen us!"\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "COME CLOSER, LITTLE MORSEL. MMMM, I AM HUNGRY... HUNGRY FOR WIND WIZARD."\par
KARA: (wind magic) "No you don't! -TSUNAMI!-"\par
DERVISH SHOAL: (whipped into a tornado of water) "HAH-HAH-HAH! YOU HAVE ME TRAPPED. SO TRAVELLER, YOU'VE HEARD TELL OF THE LEGEND OF THE DERVISH SHOAL AND HAVE COME TO CLAIM YOUR PRIZE?"\par
KARA: "Huh? I don't know any Legend?"\par
KARA: (rolling eyes) "In fact most people haven't even heard of a Dervish Shoal."\par
DEVISH SHOAL: (in tsunami) "OH. OH I SEE... THAT'S, ... HAVEN'T HEARD OF ME?"\par
KARA: (matter of fact) "Just ask around."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "REALLY? WOW THAT'S A KILLER, THAT'S DISAPPOINTING."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "IT'S ALWAYS THE SAME YOU KNOW. EVERYONE REMEMBERS THE  'OH, THE BIG, SC-.. FIERCE, BIG DRAGONS...' 'OH, DRAGONS - THEY'RE SO SCARY AND EXCITING'."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "AND PHOENIXES, OR -STUPID-FACE-, UNICORNS, PRANCING ABOUT IN FIELDS, LA LA LA! GETTING FRISKY WITH MAIDENS."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "IT MAKES YOU SICK."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: (wobbly) "UH... SPEAKING OF MAKING ME SICK...*bloop*"\par
KARA: (rolling eyes) "*sigh* Go on then."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "WHAT?!"\par
KARA: "Tell me the Legend of the Dervish Shoal. *snap!* There, you're free."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: (Free again) "SERIOUSLY? YOU -WANT- TO KNOW?"\par
KARA: "Sure, maybe I'll even spread the word a little for ya."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "WHOO! WELL, HERE IT IS!: \par
DERVISH SHOAL: "'THEY SAY', IF YOU TRAP A DERVISH SHOAL THEN YOU MAY ASK IT... YOU MAY ASK IT, THE -TIME-! CORRECT TO THE NEAREST QUARTER HOUR OR SO."\par
KARA: "Really? Wow."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "IT'S A GOOD ONE, YES?"\par
KARA: "Oh -yes-. Yeah, that's -something- all right. Impressive. People are sure to remember."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "YOU SEE, *HAHA*, THE SECRET OF IT IS I LOOK AT THE ANGLE OF THE SHADOW CAST BY THIS SPIRE HERE..."\par
KARA: "Like a sundial, sure."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "A... A WHAT?"\par
KARA: "Nevermind *cough*, nothing. Well I'm off to spread the Legend."\par
DERVISH SHOAL: (expelling dervies from its eyes) "YOU'VE BEEN ... VERY KIND LITTLE WIND WIZARD. *SNIFF* I'M SORRY ABOUT THE EATING-YOU THING."\par
KARA: (super happy) "'K Bye! (musical note)"\par
DERVISH SHOAL: "SUPER!"\par
KARA: (rolling eyes, quiet) "Whoa, what a wet weekend."\par
\pard\cf0\par
\par
(4) Hrungnir - King of the Gnomes: an animate mountain top (EARTH)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (exuberant pose) "Bam! Another massive Glyph solved by Princess Kara, the dazzling girl with the super-sized brain!"\par
KARA: "This mountain kind of looks like it has a face. *Giggle* But I wonder why the twerp cast a spell on it?"\par
HRUNGNIR: "*sound like rocks scraping* *crack* *creeeunch*!"\par
KARA: (surprise) "Huh? Is it trying to TALK to me?"\par
HRUNGNIR: "*sounds of gravel sliding* *Boom!* *scrape* *crash* *Crack!*"\par
KARA: (musing) "But what would a mountain want to talk about? 'Hey, nice view!' - 'Is my peak eroding?' - 'Remember when that glacier came through here a million years ago?'"\par
HRUNGNIR: (loud) "*CRUNCH!* *sound of boulders splitting* *Screeeech* *SMASH!*"\par
KARA: "Oh-h-h golly! I just remembered... that's a Gnome King!"\par
HRUNGNIR: "*rumble*"\par
KARA: "And his highness isn't too happy. I hope I can get this right: *Gargling sound* *hiss* *raspberry*"\par
KARA: "Hey, I think he's impressed! I'll try some more: *whistle* *clearing sinuses* *throaty gargle* *double raspberry*"\par
HRUNGNIR: "TRANSLATED: 'Haah-haa-haah, that is more of a southern accent - but you try well, human. Now tell me, why should I not bring down an army of my little warriors on you, for attacking me!"\par
KARA: (surprised) "TRANSLATED: Me? I not did water-buffalo(???) attack you, your high-like. It was that quadrilateral gremlin,  -untranslatable-, who spatula-penguined you into a 'magic-rock-spell' before I got here."\par
HRUNGNIR: "TRANSLATED: Gremlin? A Gremlin attacked me... whilst I slept here."\par
KARA: (joy) "TRANSLATED: Donkey-backflip!"\par
HRUNGNIR: "TRANSLATED: I see. There is little -I- can do, my roots took to the mountain long and long ago."\par
HRNGNIR: "TRANSLATED: But my children's eyes will be looking, and they will come to you with news of its location if they spy it."\par
KARA: "TRANSLATED:  Thanks you. Most 'generously-endowed!' King of the 'little-rock-people'."\par
HRUNGNIR: "No, thank you, human. I owe you a debt that will be repaid."\par
KARA: "Wha? You can speak English?! Why didn't you tell me at the beginning?"\par
HRUNGNIR: "HAA HAA HAA!"\par
KARA: (embarrased) "Hmph."\par
\pard\par
All solved.\par
\par
\pard\li1136\cf4 KARA: (smile) "Time to move on, Ky. Oh?...."\cf3\par
\pard\cf0\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Thunderhead\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf4 This location reprises the Kazenagi legend from Matthius' Journey, to give that story more significance for being in the game in the first place, and to give players a sense of part of the OTT Universe's possible future...\cf3\b\par
\par
\pard\li1136\cf4\b0 KARA: "...Take us to that spire up ahead, the one taller than all the others..." (portrait window shows a dark glyph laying on top of a spire of rock which towers above all of the others and almost pierces a thick, black, ominous thundercloud, location window shows just the stormy sky)\par
KARA: (doubt) "Something feels very wrong about that dark glyph. Like... it would be better for everyone if I just - let it be."\par
KARA: (brightly) "But hey, we didn't get into this to do it by half measures!"\par
KARA: "Anything left glyphed is a bolthole Mr Gremlin can teleport away to. I don't think we have a choice, Ky, take us down!"\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) 'Echo'\par
\par
\pard\li1136 MIST: "HHhoOOOOAAAAGgGH!" (A dark cloud of tiny tormented, stylised faces, and a central visage, Loud)\par
KARA: (a wave of negative energy blows across her face, turning the portrait negative and distorting it) "*Gasp!* What are you?"\par
MIST: "Ha ha hahahaa! Do you recoil in my presence even now, girl?"\par
MIST: "Now that I am nothing, dust in the pantry, I am but the passing cloud that makes you shiver on a Summer's day."\par
KARA: (utter horror) "No!... it can't be, but you're-"\par
MIST: (loud) "I am the echo of the exogenesis! The inexorable power that was KAZENAGI, Demon Emperor of Old Jomon!"\par
KARA: (in shock, quiet) "Kazenagi."\par
KARA: "I don't believe it... We -killed- you."\par
MIST: "Yesss, wretch, your memory doesn't fail you - I am dead. Or devoid of my strength, perhaps the difference is inconsequential." (mist face bitter)\par
KARA: (looking down, introspective) "So few ... so -few- survived it, your War on humanity. I was the one wizard left alive ... two hundred years ago."\par
MIST: "Ah my glory days, has it been so long? Hua ha ha! And now here I rot. Yet you look fresh from the vine, girl."\par
KARA: (looking up, eyes tearing) "*swallow* After what you did to the land, to the people... Even after you were defeated, we could barely find the strength to go on."\par
KARA: "We rebuilt. We healed the land as best we could... and then afterwards... afterwards..."\par
KARA: "I've forced myself not to think of those times. I - I discarded my old self, I magicked the memories away, numbed them until I couldn't feel them anymore and then I made myself forever young. Free of cares."\par
MIST: "From what I have witnessed, wandering the skies in this empty form, your clumsy attempt to rid yourself of those 'unhappy' memories has rendered you a weakling."\par
MIST: "A mere child given to constant fits of anger or happiness. How delicious! I would have feasted on a brat like you, like a candy apple."\par
KARA: (very angry) "SHUT UP!"\par
KARA: (concentrating) "Being on this quest, finding your remains still defiling this world, it's -waking me up- to what I should have been doing all these years."\par
KARA: (tearing up again) "I should still be FIGHTING, not hiding, not just watching the world go by. I used to care... you took that from me!"\par
MIST: "Aaaaah, it was mine to take, all of it. Your lands, your lives! Hahaha ha! Such sport, and I would not have ceased until the world bore my mark."\par
KARA: (Visibly regains her strength) "Begone vapor, let your -fading- memory serve as reminder for heroes to rise up against the darkness! You'll do no more harm to us, you've only made us stronger. Come on, Ky."\par
MIST: "What's this?"\par
MIST: "Stronger? ... I feel - yes I hear you my Yogon children ... I feel..."\par
MIST: "STRONGER!" (Kazenagi's Echo surges, suddenly finding strength)\par
KYASTRAL: "Kyaaaeeeeech!" (Kyastral is hit, flapping and writhing in a storm of negative energy.)\par
KARA: "NoooOOO! Ky!" (loud and in real shock)\par
MIST: "AAHAAAHAAHAAA! I FEED, FOR THR FIRST TIME IN AN AGE!" (loud)\par
KARA: Now placing herself inbetween Ky and the Echo, taking the hit of the negative energy tendrils pouring out from Kazenagi like evil electricity. "Fly away Ky! You're not strong enough." Her eyes are narrowed in pain.\par
KYASTRAL: (flying solo) "KYAAaaa!!"\par
KARA: "Bring help if you can. But GO!!!"\par
MIST: "No-one can help you now, my children have found a way, they're bringing me back!"\par
KARA: "No way! You're NOT strong enough! - ZEPHYRUSSS!" (she wields a tremendous burst of wind energy against the flow of darkness)\par
MIST: "Ooooargh!" (face contorted in pain, like Mr Stay Puft being hit in the face with the Ghostbusters proton pack - the echo shrinks back as the strength boils away from its core)\par
KARA: "*Huff!* -", Kara is suddenly knocked backwards by the clash of energies. \par
KARA: (eyes closed, she falls from the spire...)\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Falling\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "Falling, like a feather (musical_note)" she mumbles - the portrait window shows her drifting down through clouds and smaller spires, eyes closed, unconscious. It is snowing. \par
KARA: "...like Kazenagi's ashes..."\par
KARA: "...like the snow..." (her wind magic is in evidence in the bright magical feathers twirling from the glowing folds of her cloak)\par
MIST: (the portrait is faded, as if it's a memory or from a long distance away)"..Jomon's shield failed briefly... enough for my childern to-... Dark rites!.. I am still weak, but they strive now more than ever..."\par
KARA: "Mmm. NO, not again."\par
MIST: "...I wiiiill return..."\par
KARA: "We will ALWAYS be there, to stop you. -I- will."\par
KARA: "*mumble* Ky... Kii Kii? Where are you?"\par
KARA: (quiet) "..."\par
KARA: "Nearly three hundred years old... ohhh. Maybe it's time I grew up... again."\par
KARA: (wide shot) "-" (silence as she falls serenly through the snowflakes)\par
KARA: (the portrait shows the ground beneath her, her body floats inches above it for a moment)\par
KARA: (then she slumps onto the snow)\par
BLACK: The portrait window cuts to black, with the dialogue message "And so she slept, for a while."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Mountain pass\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf3\b [The location name changes to reflect that Kara is back on solid ground]\cf0\b0\par
\par
\pard\li1136 VOICE: (the portrait window changes to a dim, blurry view of something that's hard to make out) "Oi!"\par
VOICE: "OI! Wayke oop!" \par
GNOME: (unblurs to show Kara laying on the ground, with a odd, coal-like, tiny man standing next to her) "Wakye yeesef oop, gally. This is noo place ta sleep!"\par
KARA: (sore) "Uh.. ow! Please stop yelling..."\par
GNOME: "Ahm surry gally, boot the Kyng arsksed meh ta find ye. Errrgently!"\par
KARA: "Ugh, where am I?"\par
GNOME: "Nor'scrag moontins, have ye beeen drenking? Are ye tapsy?"\par
GNOME: "The Kyng sed ta find ye, and ta tell ye: the Grrramlyn hass bin sin."\par
KARA: "Been... The Gremlin has been seen?"\par
GNOME: "Aye, Gneville spied him farrrrther oop this hee pass! Nor'chine gaol."\par
KARA: "Gaol? The Jail! He's already at Edizon's prison?! Oh no, I have to go!"\par
GNOME: "Och. Hyumans. Who unnerstans them?" (scratching his head)\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Nor'Chine Prison\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\li1136\cf4 KARA: Kara descends in the portrait window using her wind powers "*whoooosh*"\par
KARA: (then she stands holding Vanglorian, thinking) "I'm here! Ky may be gone, but I can still levitate myself up a measly mountain... \par
KARA: (normal close-up portrait, curious) "So this is the infamous Nor'chine Prison." \par
KARA: (very worried, thinking) "This is my last chance! So many good wizards have fought to bring the wand to this moment... I can't let them down."\par
KARA: (angry, loud) "MR GREMLIN, show yourself!"\par
INSIDE: Portrait window shows a view of the inner prison gates and guard room, "-(echoes)-"\par
KARA: "Gasp! The stew on this table is still steaming. He can only have been here seconds ago!"\par
KARA: (grin) "So it's a race, hey Mr Gremlin? Well, I'm willing to bet I'm still FASTER than you!"\par
KARA: "Argh, the inner gate is jammed shut, what do I need to do?"\par
KARA: "Aha! More gremlin droppings. If I'm lucky these will be the -very last-! Let's GO!!!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles \cf0  \cf1 -  In the Classic game mode, these four glyphs will have very strict time limits\cf0\par
\par
(1) Guards  - Two guards reappear at the table, and continue their interrupted conversation.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GUARD #1: "-d so I says to him, "Is it really bloody necessary to have two of us guarding him -24- hours a day?"\par
GUARD #2: "A day. Yehh."\par
GUARD #1: "All the kerfuffle, reopening this dump for one ol' man. I says, 'What's he gonna do?' "\par
GUARD #2: "Hah! Ol' man gonna do? Yehh."\par
GUARD #1: "Bring down an 'orde of magical creatures on us? Not bloody likely, I -"\par
GUARD #1: "Hang on, who're you? Whatcha think you're-"\par
KARA: "Look, I don't have time for this!"\par
GUARD #1: "How'd you get in here?"\par
GUARD #2: "Get in here? Yehh..."\par
KARA: "You've been attacked, there's a monster trying to free the Lightning wizard. What do I need to get to the cells?" (forcefull)\par
GUARD #2: "-*!*-" (bugging out)\par
GUARD #1: "Bloody 'ell, Spiggott, she's right. Somefin' has been through 'ere... 'ello, Spiggott? E's scarpered!" (panicked)\par
GUARD #1: "Lightning wizard?! Actually I fink I might go help Spiggott get those, um, 'reinforcements'!"\par
GUARD #1: "You'll need to use the crank to open the first gate, then keys for the second. Righty ho!"\par
KARA: "*Sigh*"\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Model of the Prison - Nor'chine Prison is an unusual shape, built precariously straddling the twin peaks of the tallest mountain in the Nor'scrag range.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "It's a model of the jail - so there's a series of small cells lining this main corridor up to the maximum security towers."\par
KARA: "Look! A note's pinned to the East tower! 'Franklin Edizon', 'Cell lined with Corbomite to prevent all elemental magicks."\par
KARA: "That's where we're going, if we can just get the gate open!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Keys - A small puzzle, fastest of the lot\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "Keys! Check!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Ornate Portcullis\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "Oh -I- see, there are two inner gates and the second won't open unless this first has been properly lifted. No wonder it wouldn't budge for me!"\par
KARA: "This gothic black ironwork is pretty imposing, I'll bet old Edizon didn't enjoy walking through these dark gates when he was locked up."\par
KARA: (worried) "I'm not sure I will either, but I gotta get them open somehow!"\par
\pard\par
\par
All solved.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: "OKAY! Crank the first portcullis. *Crung-crung-crung* - Unlock the second, *Chonk!* - and I'm in!"\par
KARA: "Just three flights of stairs and I'll be at -Edizon's Cell-."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Edizon's Cell\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf4 Kara readies for the final encounter with Pox..\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (loud, joy, jumping forwards with the wand outstretched) "HAH! (musical_note) Take this , Mr... Gremlin..."\par
KARA: "No! No no NO!" (flustered)\par
KARA: "But... there's nothing here but a broken ball and chain. I'm too late. I'VE FAILED!"\par
KARA: "Oh Ky, I wish you were with me... what do I do?" (tearing up). \par
KARA: "What's that?"\par
KARA: "A single glyph? Another guard... or Edizon's shackles, I suppose."\par
KARA: (worried) "Well, I don't see what else I can do right now."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles  -  The penultimate Pox battle, very challenging!\cf0\par
\par
(1) Edizon!\par
\par
\pard\li1136 EDIZON: "Harrgh! I can't BELIEVE that simpering fool did THAT!!!" (furious)\par
EDIZON: "... turning on its Master!" (sly grin, head turned to face Kara)\par
KARA: "*Gasp!* Edizon!" (totally shocked, she trips backwards to the floor)\par
EDIZON: "I'll take this!", Edizon swipes the wand with a mad glint in his eyes.\par
KARA: "NoOoOo!" (wobbly bubble). \par
KARA: (Kara passes out) "*faint*"\par
\pard\par
\par
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\par
As happens on the completion of all Journeys, this is the point that the player gets kicked back to the Journey select screen - and the next Journey is unlocked. Remember, in the case of 'Edizon's Revenge' the locked state of the graphic is blank (completely hidden) so when the graphic switches to the unlocked state it \i appears \i0 for the first time. Up until now, the player doesn't even know there's an eighth Journey in the game.\par
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\par
\par
\b Appendix Notes\b0 :\par
\par
Nor'chine: \cf6 The ravine-lined and mountainous, frosty lands North of Netherweir.\par
\par
\cf4 Nor'chine Prison: \cf6 A uniquely hard to escape from, maximum security prison built in literally the most remote region of Magus Magna. The prison, built between the twin peaks of the tallest mountain in the Nor'scrag range, has housed many colorful villains in the past but until the need to imprison Edizon arose, it had been derelict for some years.\par
\par
\cf4 Snowbie Village\cf6 : A small, secret town nestled in at the snowy foot of the Nor'scrag mountains. This is the sole home of the Snowbies.\par
\par
\cf4 Snowbies\cf6 : Small race, barely humanoid in shape ... like overinflated albino midgets. They are extremely innocent, defenseless creatures who have never figured in any of the historical events of Magus Magna. They keep entirely to themselves, aside from one thing, they make and distribute the incredibly popular Magic SugarCandy. However, most people assume this vintage sweet is produced by some kindly old confectioner in Thatchwold (East of Thaumhaven) or some such place, and that the Snowbie characters are a ridiculous, fictional invention, dreamed up to make the packaging more attractive, just like the Keebler elves. All I'm saying is, don't go into the woods South of Lexington around midsommer's Eve unless you want to get turned into bite-sized pieces. Word to the wise.\par
\par
\cf4 Mythic Spires\cf6 : A region of the mountainous lands of Nor'chine, where some of the rarest elemental monsters are rumored to live. \cf0\par
}
 