{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red127\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\lang2057\ul\b\f0\fs22 Hero Glyphix - Journey 3\cf0\ulnone\fs28\par
\par
\cf2\fs20 "Howard's Trail" \b0 - Howard's Journey\cf3\b\par
\cf0\b0\par
Locations: 7\par
Puzzles: 36 in 134 parts\par
\par
Character:  Howard Applewood III\par
\par
Theme:  The Natural World\par
\par
Howard III is a seasoned veteran who is at one with the powers of nature, an honest, peaceful character with a heartfelt respect for all living things. He is also very capable and in his long time as an Earth Elemental Wizard he has seen off many a threat to the land. His Journey is one of the more varied in the game as the theme encompasses many attractive settings. Probably its most notable feature is that it is the first part of Hero Glyphix that is awarded to our \i paying \i0 customers, and so it's consciously designed to be immediately absorbing, challenging and more epic in nature than Skimlet's work. The dimensions and multiples of puzzle are varied throughout the journey, most puzzles aren't any smaller than 10x10 now - upping the difficulty from Skimlet's mostly 8x8 puzzles.\par
\par
Howard's Trail picks up from the cliffhanger ending of Skimlet's Journey, where Pox had disappeared away into the wilds and all hope to track him down seemed lost...\par
\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location: Eo Forest \cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 We start in a fresh location, having left Skimlet behind to recover at the Wizlab.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 SCRYE: The owl is flying high above the treeline, "Tw-oooooot!"\par
HOWARD: "Scrye, slow down you twittering rascal!" (emphatic)\par
HOWARD: "Mother Nature may bend her boughs and brambles before me, but I still can't run as fast as you fly." (exasperated)\par
SCRYE: "Twoo, tw-twoot!"\par
HOWARD: "Really? Do you see it? Then lead on, on to EVERBERRY!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location: Everberry Glade\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Howard is overjoyed at finding the fabled, idyllic home of the forest's best trackers.\par
\pard\tab\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Ha! Goodness yes. Well done Scrye, well done."\par
SCRYE: Perched on a lush branch, huge round eyes looking left at Howard "Twt-tt-tt."\par
HOWARD: "Everberry Glade, elusive home of the fairest of the faeries, the Wood Sprites, the only ones alive perhaps capable of tracking our prey." (beaming)\par
HOWARD: "<Gasp!>" (grave shock)\par
HOWARD: "...Naturally, the Gremlin has beaten us here."\par
HOWARD: "This idyllic place is spoiled by Pox's glyphs. Scrye, I think it best if you take flight, my friend."\par
SCRYE: Flying, "Twoo-ooo!"\par
HOWARD: "Back home. No arguments, I -" (eyebrow raised)\par
HOWARD: " - Ah, I see. You've already gone." (blank)\par
HOWARD: "Well very good, *ahem*, I shall remedy matters here!" (determined)\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Bluebird\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Good Mr Blue-jacket, may you return to your daily bumblings unhindered." (smile)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Squirrel\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Your bushy tail graces this sunny, forest glade once more, young Master Squirrel. Hmm-hmm, this device is a marvel of magical engineering!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Acorn\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "From tiny acorns, the mightiest oaks will grow."\par
HOWARD: "Every small thing of nature has its worth. Yes, very good."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Moonberry bush \par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "My, my. The very namesake of this place! I wonder if I might pick, -um-, just a few berries... it is said a draught of Moonberry may revitalise a man some two score years."\par
HOWARD: (To camera) "And I have noticed a *few* gray hairs creeping in."\par
\pard\par
(5) Bunny\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Ah, so tame and soft - as are all the creatures of Everberry. You are nature at her most innocent, how cruel it is that her darker side should force itself upon you."\par
HOWARD: "And it is no coincidence I fear, that the Gremlin attacked this glade, incapacitating the one ally that could help me catch it. These are not the actions of the simpleminded beast I had believed I was dealing with."\par
HOWARD: "How odd that the book gave no hint of the Gremlin's intelligence..."\par
\pard\par
\par
(6) Dandelion\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "*phwfff!*" (blowing dandelion)\par
HOWARD: "Ah, 12 o'clock!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(7) Mushroom covered, tree stump - home to the Wood elves\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Oho! Now we're getting somewhere, now we are getting somewhere indeed. And how delightfully twee."\par
HOWARD: "T'is a Magus Tree stump, home to a genteel Wood Sprite lady or lad, no doubt."\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 The purpose of these puzzles was to build an atmosphere of cutesy, stereotypical fairy tales, all very Disney-like and saccharine, which we can then shatter with the entrance of OTT's very first anti-hero.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "So! The Glade is restored to its virginal glory, and I am -honored- to stand here on its sacred ground." (Grin)\par
HOWARD: (wobbly) "And now I must humbly ask a favor - Come forth kin of Everberry. Come out, come out faerie folk so that I may speak to you!"\par
STUMP: "..."\par
STUMP: (loud) "BUUURRRRRRRRRRRRP!"\par
HOWARD: "Eh? - I, *ahem* Don't be shy."\par
WOODROT: Emerging blearily from the stump's red wooden door, "AHH! Ouch!, give me a break. Who's making all this r-RACKET, it's not even afternoon yet!"\par
HOWARD: "I, apologies... 'noble sir'. May I enquire, where then are your dainty brethren? I have a matter of most pressing importance." (unsure)\par
WOODROT: (coughing) "*cough*HACK*cough cough*-URRP!*cough*"\par
HOWARD: "Where is Silverwhistle? Treedew, Gossamer, Whimsy... Cottonpuff?" \cf5\b (show idealized wood sprites)\cf0\b0\par
WOODROT: Oh, -them-. Yeah, pff, they got so sick of me they packed their bags and moved out. Best thing too, bunch of complainers."\par
WOODROT: (sarcastic face, feigning concern) "'Woodrot what is that awful smell?' - 'Woodrot, acorn wine is only for special occasions, not for breakfast.'"\par
WOODROT: "'Woodrot, please don't do that in the berry orchard.' - Yada yada yada. Totally, flippin' unreasonable. I ask you."\par
HOWARD: "......" (lost for words)\par
HOWARD: "Wood.. rot..?"\par
WOODROT: "Pleased to make your aquainty-aince." (scratching self)\par
WOODROT: "I'm all you got, chief. Like it or lump it." (grin)\par
HOWARD: "Well. It seems I'm forced to like it, Woodrot. And so are you I'm afraid." (grave)\par
WOODROT: "Hah?" (picking nose distractedly)\par
\pard\tab\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location: Deeper Forest \cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Out in the wilds of Eo Forest, finally back on Pox's trail again.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "So you're telling me... there are these magical people called wizards, and one of 'em's set loose this gremlin thing I'm following." (sceptical)\par
HOWARD: "Then you are already tracking it?"\par
WOODROT: (nonchalant) "Oh ya. Piece of cake."\par
WOODROT: " And you're telling me he's some kind of loony tunes, busting out the bad mojo on people and what-not, and you've got to stop him before he attacks some other bunch of building things called 'towns'. Stuff like that."\par
HOWARD: "That is roughly speaking correct. Spiffing! Now we must hurry, it already has a headsta-"\par
WOODROT: "Are all humans as funny as you?" (amused, mild)\par
HOWARD: "I beg your pardon?"\par
WOODROT: "You're on your own, grampa. It's a nice story, but I'm not a character in it. It's back to bed for me." (dismissive)\par
HOWARD: "But -you're- the only one that can track the monster!"\par
WOODROT: "Look at this face. See the emotions wrestling with each other. Should I save the world or return to my life of luxury?!?! ..ehhh..." (sarcasm)\par
WOODROT: "Bye-eee!" (waving)\par
HOWARD: (calm) "You know my Grandfather, Howard Applewood the First, used to tell an interesting tale about his time as a wizard. He was an Elemental Earth Wizard, like my good self..."\par
WOODROT: "Oh, here we go again with the storytime." (bored)\par
HOWARD: "Of course, being so close to Nature and the harmony of all things, we Earth Wizards are thought of as mild mannered, gentle folk not capable of bearing a grudge."\par
HOWARD: "But my Grandfather once came up against this 'bad egg' of a lumberjack, who insisted on chopping down ancient magical Yews just to sell kindling that burned with a merry blue flame."\par
HOWARD: "Tut tut tut. Oh, Howard the First was as reasonable as could be, he explained politely how precious the ancient trees were and how important to the Forest and for apothecaries' healing medicines."\par
HOWARD: "Days passed, the chopping continued. He even pleaded with lumberjack, on his knees my Grandfather would say, to reconsider his selfish ways. But still the man was unheedful."\par
HOWARD: "So my Grandfather caused a tree to grow right out of the man's -"\par
WOODROT: (clutching ass, face agape) "-!-"\par
HOWARD: "The SELFISH lumberjack never sat down again."\par
HOWARD: "Nice story. He did so enjoy the telling of it. Oh, I thought you were leaving?"\par
WOODROT: "I've -uh- decided to humor you for a while."\par
HOWARD: "Really? oh that -is- sporting of you Woodrot!" (amused smile)\par
WOODROT: "Yeah, yeah. The Gremlin's this way chief, look there's even some of its handiwork right there."\par
\pard\par
\cf1\par
Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Butterfly\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Ah a Paper Admiral! Such a delicate thing to have been trapped in stone, now free to ride the eddies in search of nectar again."\par
WOODROT: "Hey-ey! Careful where you point that stick, I don't want any accidental butt-trees sprouting out!"\par
HOWARD: "I assure you, it's quite safe. Although, a wand -is- an unusual magical focus for a wizard. Very show-offy. Quite typical of Methusaleh, if certain records are to be believed."\par
HOWARD: "In the ways of elemental magic I favor my old walking cane, Skimlet, his hat. Lord Matthius his fire gem pendant. They're a little more refined in my opinion."\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Osprey catching a salmon\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Oh! An Eo Osprey taking a salmon, marvelous!"\par
WOODROT: "S' gruesome, more like." (nervous)\par
HOWARD: "Such grace and precision, what a spectacle."\par
WOODROT: "Argh! Now it's ripping into its... and all the pink stuff coming out... it's, it's still wiggling!!!" (shock)\par
HOWARD: "Dear me, t'is all part of nature's majesty. What, have you never roamed beyond the Glade to see for yourself?"\par
WOODROT: (wobbly) "No, and you won't catch me doing it again."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Angry Skunk, poxed with its tail raised\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "Hey look, it's spraying something all over you..." (blank)\par
HOWARD: "No, Mr Skunk! It's not ME you're angry at!"\par
HOWARD: "Stop! *ack* Stop it!" (flailing)\par
WOODROT: "Pyeu! Why'd you do that? That smells bloody awful."\par
HOWARD: (fuming) "...Which way is the Gremlin?"\par
WOODROT: (pointing and holding nose) "..."\par
HOWARD: (still fuming) "That's another score to settle."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Magus Tree\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "A young Magus tree - growing these is my speciality you know? As it was my Grandfather's."\par
HOWARD: "They're a perfect match for Earth magic, they verily explode from the ground at the touch of my staff! And they bear very sweet fruit in the winter too."\par
WOODROT: "Please, for the sake of my nerves, NO more talk about magic trees!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) A Giant Termite\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "Bug! BIG bug! Big bug BAD!" (scared)\par
HOWARD: "Now now, it's true these super-sized termites -are- my nemeses. They like nothing better than to masticate on a Magus Tree..."\par
HOWARD: "And yet they're a vital part of Nature's cycle, and as a deserving of their lives as any other living thing. There's beauty even in them, Woodrot."\par
\pard\par
\par
(6) Bear rearing up on its hind legs! - the game's first 3x3 multiple\par
\par
\pard\li1136 BEAR: "Grmph?" (confused for a moment)\par
HOWARD: "Oh my!"\par
WOODROT: "Oh MY GOD!"\par
BEAR: "GroOoArRgH!"\par
HOWARD: (running) "It might be best .. *huff huff*... to admire the beauty of this boisterous fellow... *huff*... from a respectful distance!"\par
WOODROT: (running) "Waaaaa-aaaa! Eat the hairy one! I'm mostly gristle!"\par
HOWARD: "I'll... *huff* pretend.. *huff huff* I didn't ... *huff* hear *huff huff* ...that!"\par
HOWARD: "Just a little further..."\par
WOODROT: "I'm not stopping until I hit snow."\par
HOWARD: "Ah, that *huff*, ought to do it. An invigorating trot, it quite reawakens the spirit."\par
WOODROT: "..." (blank)\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Tracking Pox leads them deeper and deeper into the forest.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Very good! Some fine glyph weaving, or -unweaving- I suppose I should say. Altogether-"\par
WOODROT: (loud) "There, the Gremlin!"\par
HOWARD: "What! Where?"\par
WOODROT: "It darted past and hurried down into that rabbit-hole."\par
HOWARD: "Rabbit-hole? No no, that... is the entrance to Lanternsbane Caverns."\par
WOODROT: "And that's where you're going too?"\par
HOWARD: "Follow we must, we must indeed! There's no time to lose!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location: Lanternsbane Caverns\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Pox heads underground and Howard follows. These puzzles are a nice variation because everything is drawn in negative (mostly white on black).\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136\f1 HOWARD: "\lang1033 'Step into the cavern's jaw\par
Feel the coursing of its breath,\par
And guard thy lantern lest your bones\par
Be swallowed to its hungry depths'"\par
\par
HOWARD: "Ha, would you believe people used to think Lanternsbane was actually alive? Of course the truth is much simpler..."\par
HOWARD: "Unlucky travellers would find their light sources extinguished in the gusty, serpentine tunnels and become fatally lost."\par
WOODROT: "Oh well, that's reassuring." (deadpan)\par
HOWARD: "Here, take a light. My, it's more slippery underfoot than I recall and almost impenetrably black."\par
HOWARD: "But I'm sure I remember the safer paths, and with your instincts as to the Gremlin's direction we should have no problems!"\par
HOWARD: "Well then?"\par
WOODROT: "Never being able to sit down again is beginning to look like an appealing alternative. *Sigh* ... That way."\lang2057\par
\pard\f0\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\par
\cf0\par
(1) Cave Spider - the game's first 12 pixel puzzle\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Spiny Blind Cave Spider... quite a large one. Maybe a gravid female..."\par
WOODROT: "Yeurk! Are you going to find something poetic and uplifting to say about that?"\par
HOWARD: "It's very... actually, they rather give me the willies... let's keep moving." (nervous)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) A swarm of bats\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Duck!"\par
WOODROT: "Flying mice! That's just not right. Certainly ain't hygenic."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) A rusty lantern \par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Ah. A rusty lantern, extinguished and dropped in a blind panic I imagine. Not a terribly good omen."\par
WOODROT: "You know, I was sensing that even -without- you spelling it out." (glare / dead pan)\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Stalactites and Stalacmites\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "Stuffy."\par
HOWARD: "Stuffy? We're perhaps a half league, deep underground, stepping forth out into this stunning limestone chamber, Nature's Cathedral! And all you can say is stuffy?!"\par
WOODROT: "Damp and stuffy?" (glare)\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Stalacfrite!\par
\par
\pard\li1136 STALACFRITE: "Gngngngng!"\par
HOWARD: "Step back, quickly now!"\par
WOODROT: "I'm waaay ahead of you, face-fungus."\par
HOWARD: "Give it some space and it should -"\par
STALACFRITE: (descending) "Gnnnnnnnnn............"\par
HOWARD: "- retract, back into the cavern floor. Yes, good. Be careful to give that spot a wide berth, Woodrot."\par
WOODROT: "WHY am I doing this, again, you mad hippie? I'd have worn my brown tights if I'd known! EXPLAIN it to me." (ranting)\par
HOWARD: "Edizon. Damn fool, Edizon. That's why we're down here chasing shadows in the dark!"\par
WOODROT: "The bad wizard in your little tale. So, why's he got you SO riled up?" (annoyed)\par
HOWARD: "Hah. I suppose you deserve to know. Very well... Franklin Edizon, was a contemporary of mine. Outstandingly smart, even as a child - deviously intelligent one might well say."\par
HOWARD: "I've never met another mind like his. His inventiveness, his cunning, it was a gift - and believe me, the one thing that stood as a counterbalance to his many flaws."\par
HOWARD: "Bah, he was so prentious, brimming with superiority and ambition. There was never a scrap of empathy or friendship in him."\par
WOODROT: "I'm missing the point here..." (blank)\par
HOWARD: "You surprise me. The point is, fair sprite, that he took every ounce of talent he was blessed with and poured it into destructive and self-serving ends."\par
HOWARD: "He had a monumental 'God-complex'. And not your benevolent, mana from heaven variety."\par
HOWARD: "When he achieved his ascension to 'Elemental Wizard' of Lightning, it was surrounded in ill-rumor. Old Huppenheimer, the man he succeeded, simply disappeared."\par
HOWARD: "As did Edizon, in fact, right off the map for twenty years - working on his army of rock men, as it turns out. His lightning Golems."\par
HOWARD: "Heheh. As masterplans go, it proven to be rather poor. Myself, Skimlet and Matthius made short work of his creations last year." (smile)\par
HOWARD: (more grave) "But I've no doubt it was the tip of the iceberg, the man is a danger to us, to the whole world."\par
HOWARD: "For a great many years wizards have suffered an air of terrible distrust and superstition. I have lived my life, Woodrot, slowly rebuilding that."\par
HOWARD: "Edizon's bad deeds are undoing it all in a matter of months!"\par
WOODROT: "..."\par
HOWARD: "I won't stand for it."\par
WOODROT: "Well I don't see why you care what people think about you. I sure as poopy don't."\par
HOWARD: "Would that it were that easy." (wistful)\par
WOODROT: "OK! So you whack the Gremlin, and I get to go home?"\par
HOWARD: "That's the plan."\par
WOODROT: "Grr, we'd better bloody hurry up then." (bitter determination)\par
\pard\par
\par
(6) Explorer's bones & pith helmet\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "Argh! Put it away, put it away!" (hiding eyes)\par
HOWARD: "Really Woodrot, these bones are probably a hundred years old."\par
WOODROT: "Na na na na! I'm not listening to the b-word. Just cover them up or something!!" (still hiding eyes)\par
HOWARD: "Okay. You can open your eyes."\par
WOODROT: "You sure?"\par
HOWARD: "Yes."\par
WOODROT: "Really?"\par
HOWARD: "Open your eyes."\par
WOODROT: "You've hidden the b-things away?"\par
HOWARD: "YES, of course."\par
WOODROT: "Okay then..."\par
WOODROT: (wobbly) "ARGH! They're still there!!!"\par
HOWARD: "Oh, get going you big baby."\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Howard and Woodrot have successfully followed Pox's path through the cavern, and cleared up his magical detritus.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Is it my imagination or is the air getting fresher?"\par
WOODROT: "Hey, sorry about that back there. Didn't think you'd noticed."\par
HOWARD: "Gah, no! I mean there is fresh air coming in from *outside*. I think we're nearing an exit..."\par
WOODROT: "Daylight!!!" (loud, joy)\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location: T-Rex Valley\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
Howard and Woodrot climb out of the darkness to find themselves here. Hidden in the heart of Eo Forest is one of Magus Magna's most dangerous terrains. \par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "Sweet sweet DAYLIGHT!!! *inhale*"\par
WOODROT: "Ohh, to be back in the real world again."\par
VALLEY SHOT: A brontosaur lumbers along a sandy valley, "*Stomp stomp stomp*"\par
WOODROT: "What's wrong with this picture?" (quizzical)\par
HOWARD: "Botheration! I remember this blasted place from the last game.", "I, uh  *cough*, that is, I mean to say the last adventure. Edizon had rather a penchant for staging his tests here."\par
HOWARD: "This is T-Rex Valley; a nearly inaccessible landscape that has been cut off from the rest of the Forest for eons. The last refuge of the great lizard carnivores..."\par
WOODROT: "...I... see..."\par
HOWARD: "Woodrot, where do you think you're going?"\par
WOODROT: "...I'm juuust scouting out shortcuts... I'll be..."\par
HOWARD: "Get back here. I need you to track Pox! Woodrot! Woodrot you coward, I'm warning you!"\par
HOWARD: "Blast!! So I'm on my own."\par
HOWARD: "... Alright. Chop chop, come on Howard. This can be a valuable field trip for you, lot's of fascinating new flora and fauna. Yes, yes. Nothing to faze you..."\par
HOWARD: "Just keep heading North, and you're bound to find either the Gremlin or the Valley's end." (determined)\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) T-Rex tracks\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Tracks in the mud, *T-Rex* tracks if I'm not mistaken. It's hard to tell how fresh they are..."\par
HOWARD: "Tum te tum tum (musical note)" (nervous)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Trilobyte\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Ha ha, there you go little fellow! Back to the stream with you."\par
HOWARD: "Goodness it's exciting to see one of you skittering about. Beyond the valley you're extinct I'm afraid, nothing but fossils."\par
HOWARD: "It's said you're actually very tasty in a gumbo, which might explain things. Eheh."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Giant Dragonfly\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Oh, look what was hiding in that glyph! I have always had a fondness for jeweled Dragonflies, and here they grow up to a wingspan of 3 metres!"\par
HOWARD: "The glint of the sun on it's faceted eyes, the reverberating hum of these giant wings, simply amazing."\par
HOWARD: "It's a stark contrast to their brown jacketed larvae - snappish, little brutes indeed! But that is Nature's design, so diverse in its perfection. *sigh* Wonderful. Well, onward!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) T-Rex eggs\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: (quiet) "Unmistakably, this is a nest of T-Rex eggs. What a priviledged sight this is, but I *do* hope the mother isn't too nearby..."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Thriceratops\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Phew! Another magical conundrum solved, the gremlin is doing a fine job of slowing me down."\par
\pard\par
\par
(6) Ankylosaurus\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Don't wave that tail at me, my friend!"\par
HOWARD: "Aha, yes. That's it, boy. You look tough but you're a good herbivore, aren't you? Don't f-forget that!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(7) Giant T-Rex!!! - Our first multiple of 4.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "S-staggering! I was expecting something big from that monstrous glyph but... the sheer size of this is..."\par
T-REX: (loud) "HAAARARAGH!"\par
HOWARD: "RUN Howard, time for talking later!!!" (running)\par
HOWARD: "My what a set of teeth! *Huff!* I really should save *Huff!* my breath for running *Huff!*"\par
HOWARD: "It's only *Huff!* slowing me *Huff Huff!* down really!" (running)\par
HOWARD: "Best to *Huff Huff Huff!* conserve..."\par
T-REX: "GRRAAA-HARAAAARRRGH!!!"\par
HOWARD: "......!" (running)\par
HOWARD: " ... *Huff!* ..." (running)\par
HOWARD: "... *Huff!* ... *Huff!*" (running)\par
HOWARD: "Oh... my..." (running)\par
HOWARD: "*Gasp* - Oh, that put these old bones to the test, and no mistake." (exhausted)\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Safe at last, Woodrot sheepishly reappears at the valley's exit having found his own selfish shortcut.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Valley's end! That's a sight for sore eyes, and feet."\par
WOODROT: "Hey, there you are chief. We made it out alive!"\par
HOWARD: "Woodrot!"\par
HOWARD: "I've been tackling every danger that gremlin has thrown at me singlehanded. You left me in the lurch you blistering scoundrel!"\par
WOODROT: "Y'know, I like to think of myself more as a loveable rogue." (cheeky grin)\par
HOWARD: "Hrumph! Sadly, it seems I overestimated my friend and underestimated my enemy. More fool me, I suppose."\par
HOWARD: "Well... enough foolery - let's tackle this hill side. It's unclimable from outside the valley, but I daresay we should be able to scramble -down- it."\par
WOODROT: "Hey, I hope you're not going to hold this little misunderstanding against me."\par
HOWARD: "Do come on."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location:  Shoreline\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Here at the shore beyond Eo Forest, near Godo's Teeth (a series of needle like rocks jutting from the sea) we meet Captain Humphrey Portstarboard. He's a very prim, proud and formal man, if slightly loopy.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Down from the Valley Plateau, a league of forest, and now - out here onto the glistening shoreline. Yes, this is a most excellent map."\par
WOODROT: "Huh? A what?"\par
HOWARD: "A map. Map? A small picture of a big place? I imagine living in the seclusion of Everberry meant you have no need for such contrivances."\par
WOODROT: "Contrivances?"\par
HOWARD: "Oh, nevermind." (cross)\par
WOODROT: "Don't get tetchy!"\par
HOWARD: "I'm quite calm, thank you."\par
WOODROT: "It isn't my fault I don't know about all these fancy things, you dragged ME out of my humble lifestyle."\par
HOWARD: "Hmph, yes... ...and I -am- grateful for your help. I'd be quite at sea without your tracking abilities."\par
WOODROT: "'Sea'?!"\par
HOWARD: ".....!" (cross)\par
WOODROT: "Hehehehe!" (evil chuckle)\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Excuse me gents, I- I- I couldn't ask for a modest favor could I?"\par
HOWARD: "Ah, yes, yes of course. Good Afternoon, I'm Howard Applewood III and this is my 'faithful' companion Woodrot."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Admiral Humphrey Portstarboard, sirs. *ahem-mumble* At your service, or at least I would be..."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "I'm the Captain of the fine steamer, the S.S.Saltshaker. The only member of crew in fact, i-i-it's at dock just there."\par
WOODROT: "Cripes, look at that floating deathtrap, it's an old rustbucket!"\par
HOWARD: (quiet) "Quiet, sprite!"\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Only you see, I've had a dash of bad luck and she's not going anywhere..."\par
WOODROT: "This wouldn't be gremlin related by any chance?"\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Gremlin you say? *ahem-mumble* That's what the furry fellow was, was he?"\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "The blighter disabled her engines, then - would you believe - scampered orf away over the surface of the water. That's just not cricket, eh?"\par
HOWARD: "Why don't you show us what the source of the problem is? I'm sure we can help."\par
WOODROT: "But are you sure we should help this befuddled human get in control of heavy machinery?"\par
HOWARD: (quiet) "I said QUIET, sprite."\par
WOODROT: "Hmph, seemed like a fair question."\par
HOWARD: "Lead the way, Admiral."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Capital. I would be very much - uh - uh - obliged!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\par
\cf0\par
(1) Coal store - the first incidental 15x15 pixel puzzle\par
\par
\pard\li1136 PORTSTARBOARD: "Would you ,*ahem-mumble* would you -look- at that, the stone turned back into the coal store! Ha ha! What the billy-o."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "So, what you're some kind of wizzid then, eh?" (squinting)\par
HOWARD: "Ah... yes, and you're very welcome." (smile)\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Straight to the outro:\par
\pard\li1136\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Excellent, splendid, this means I can have her engines up and running in a jiffy!"\par
HOWARD: "Admiral, I wonder if we might avail you of passage across Venture Bay? We really need to catch up with the gremlin itself."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Yeees, yes of course! All aboard, wot! Teach the blighter a lesson it won't forget..."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Hard to Port! Or, out of the port rather, then starboard *ahem mumble*, uh - uh - Full steam ahead! Battle stations!"\par
WOODROT: "I have a bad feeling about this." (nervous)\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location: Steamer ride\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Riding the Steamer, heading North to the opposite side of the estuary. Howard solves puzzles as Pox scampers ahead of them. They are in close pursuit!\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "So, Woodrot - what do you make of this? Steaming along under cerulean blue skies through air whipped with salt spray..." (awe)\par
WOODROT: "I don't even want to think about it. Admiral 'Tally-ho' Humphrey is probably about to steer us into a rock at any second."\par
HOWARD: "It's magnificent..." (awe)\par
WOODROT: "Arrrrgh. Haven't you had enough of this yet?"\par
HOWARD: "This what?" (smile)\par
WOODROT: "Outdoors stuff! Cheating death in scary forests, dank caves, valleys... Animals, if they aren't eating each other they're trying to eat you."\par
WOODROT: "You've nearly been torn to shreds at least twice today, chased, threatened, sprayed! I'm still not standing downwind of you, by the way."\par
HOWARD: "It's Nature, Woodrot - doing what it does -naturally-. Magnificent in its power and variety. As an Earth Elemental Wizard... I'm lucky to be a closer part of that than most people can experience."\par
HOWARD: "You could be too you know, Wood Sprites are special folk - whatever their outlook." (smile, eyebrow raised)\par
WOODROT: "Bah..."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: (loud) "GREMLIN sighted, dead ahead!"\par
HOWARD: "He's right, I think I can see it scampering on the horizon, but if it spots us too it'll start..."\par
HOWARD: "Incoming Glyphs!"\par
HOWARD: "Admiral, keep us moving as fast as possible, but take her in towards any Glyphs so I can undo their magic! Can you do that?"\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Aye! We'll get him, by jingo. Or my name isn't StortParBoard! *ah-hrrm* P-PortStarboard!"\par
HOWARD: "You may want to hold onto something, Woodrot!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\par
\cf0\par
(1) Shark's dorsal fin\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Pox is attacking anything that moves, he's trying to slow us down."\par
WOODROT: "Then why don't we make straight for him?"\par
HOWARD: "Can't! Pox Gremlins can move instantaneously between the Glyphs they've made, that's why they evolved the skill in the first place. If we leave any behind he can easily dodge us!"\par
HOWARD: "All I can do is try to work faster than he can run." (determined)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Harbor seal on a rock\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Are we gaining? Whoo, I'm taking these Glyphs apart as quickly as I can."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "The engines are stoked hell for leather, we'll show him what the S.S.Saltshaker is made of!"\par
WOODROT: "That's what I'm afraid of." (grimace)\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Pelicans flying\par
\par
\pard\li1136 PORTSTARBOARD: "Hard to Port, lads!"\par
WOODROT: "Look at the beaks on those nasty things, a Wood Sprite would fit in there no problem!"\par
HOWARD: "You could always help the Admiral below decks?" (grin with wand)\par
WOODROT: "I'll take my chances up here."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) An Ankh Whale leaping from the water - consists of sixteen puzzles.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Now there is a sight even I haven't seen in years. Oh, how Skimlet would have loved to witness this - truly majestic!"\par
WOODROT: "Where? All I can see is that big fish."\par
HOWARD: "It's an Ankh Whale! They're extremely reclusive, magical creatures, and this is a fully mature one. Perhaps its curiosity was peaked by Pox's powers..."\par
HOWARD: "Thank goodness it's free, I couldn't forgive myself if something so precious were consigned to sink like a stone."\par
HOWARD: "Onward, Admiral!"\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "10 knotts .... 12... 15! Look out you furry bounder! Aha ha!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 The steamer ride, hits a hitch.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 PORTSTARBOARD: "Ah......"\par
HOWARD: "What's this? Admiral, why are we slowing down?"\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Fiddlesticks... come on girl! Ah, I-I-I've made rather a bungle on the, uh, coal front, I'm afraid."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "We're out of it. I've jumped the shot, so to speak, burned it all up in our dash for glory."\par
WOODROT: "Oh perfect."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "Not to worry, we'll still make the North shore..."\par
HOWARD: "...but we're not going to catch up with Pox."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "The Saltshaker will coast to the dock, but ah, yes. She'll do it rather leisurely... Drinks anyone? Cheese square on a stick?"\par
HOWARD: "...blast... he's gone."\par
PORTSTARBOARD: "I know some fine shantys that might pass the time?"\par
HOWARD: "......" (very grim)\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\cf4\ul\b Location: Wizlab Judith\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
An unconventional white building at the entrance to the Lady of Light's subterranean realm, the Hall of Visions. As with Howard's Wizlab there are four single tile puzzles of personal items, and then the opportunity to rescue the next character by solving a portrait.\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Cut to dry land, some time after reaching the North shores.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "Y'know maybe I am getting closer to Nature - it sure felt good kissing the ground after we escaped that MANIAC'S BOAT!"\par
HOWARD: "......" (grim)\par
WOODROT: "...what?! Are you still moping about that mishap with the T-Rex?"\par
HOWARD: "Excuse me, Woodrot - my mind is simply occupied with the direction you're leading us in. Are you certain..."\par
WOODROT: "Hey! Don't doubt my skills, yeah, we're dead on his trail alright. Happy?"\par
HOWARD: "No I'm not, you see this would lead Pox directly to the door of an old friend."\par
WOODROT: "Hooray! Is this another chance to hang five with someone with a disturbing facial hair fetish?" (mock happy)\par
HOWARD: "Quite the reverse, the building you see before you is the home to a most luminous lady. And I can tell from here, all is not well."\par
HOWARD: "Blast him. We have work to do."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\par
\cf0\par
(1) Jar of lights\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Fireflies, the Lady of this house has a kinship with them that goes beyond the natural world you and I know."\par
HOWARD: (thought) "The first time I saw her, a gown of living lights swept her shoulders and back, kissing the ground where her feet trod the dusky grass."\par
HOWARD: (thought) "And in my mind she was already my Belennia, Queen of the willo-wisps and light of a thousand sunsets and dawns."\par
WOODROT: "Bug collector, eh? So is your friend a Bug Elemental Wizard or something? She got extra arms, antennae? You gotta warn me in advance."\par
HOWARD: "There is no such thing as a 'Bug' Element, now put that back down before you break it." (impatient)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Prism\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "A prism made of Light-Silver, the very purest gemstone. It can split the feeblest glimmer into a rainbow of colors."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Candle\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "An apple wood candle." (smile)\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Crystal orb\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Hm, I'm surprised to see she keeps one of these old devices - like a spark to a *sun*, it pales in comparison to..."\par
WOODROT: "Huh? What?"\par
HOWARD: (smile) "Tut. ...t'is no concern of yours, Woodrot."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Judith Belennia, the Lady of Light - Again Pox appears and fights to stop you from rescuing her, and this time he is more relentless and varied in his attacks.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 HOWARD: "Lady Judith! *Huff!* Oh what a fight, thank goodness it worked." (exhausted)\par
JUDITH: "My old thistle. Was I sleeping?" (warm, beautiful smile)\par
HOWARD: (smile) "In a way... *Huff!* ... *ahem* in a way, yes. There is a creature at loose, a Pox Gremlin is bent on freeing Edizon and disrupting everything in its path."\par
JUDITH: "Do not worry, dear one. I have forseen my part in this." (still smiling)\par
JUDITH: "By now, the rat is in the grain cellar. It will have breached my Hall of Visions, throwing it into chaos and Fate determines I will follow it, with the wand." (hand extended)\par
HOWARD: "But, my lady..."\par
JUDITH: (quiet, shushing) "Shhhh... the dawn will come, as ever."\par
WOODROT: "So, aren't you going to introduce me to the Lady, gramps?" (cocky smile)\par
HOWARD: (eyebrow raised, smile) "Hmm, quite so. You'll be needing this one with you."\par
WOODROT: "Ehhehhehh! Fine by me." (evil chuckle)\par
JUDITH: "Come then small one, to a place that is not quite real - a place of patterns of light and thought. We leave now."\par
JUDITH: "Goodbye, thistle."\par
HOWARD: "Goodbye, my Lady of Light."\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\cf4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0\par
\cf6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0 end~of~Journey\cf6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0\par
\cf4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0\par
\par
\par
\b Appendix Notes\b0 :\par
\par
Eo Forest: \cf7 A vast and thick, ancient Forest Northwest of MM's capital city.\par
\par
\cf2 Wood Sprite:\cf7  A traditionally fair and lightfooted, lighthearted folk native to Everberry, which they tend to. God knows what happened with Woodrot.\par
\par
\cf2 Everberry:\cf7  The pure heart of Eo Forest\cf0\par
\par
Judith Belennia: \cf8 Named after the Celtic God of Light, Bel. She's visibly the oldest of the female wizards, but rather than using many wrinkles, she has the classical look of a Hollywood 50s leading lady. The hairstyle is influenced by Grace Kelly, swept back and with a few thick curls flowing to the back of the neck. Judith is very pale with comparatively striking red lips. She wears robes of very long layered material and a golden tiara with a sun / light motif in the middle.\par
}
 