{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red127\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang2057\ul\b\f0\fs20 Title\b0 : \cf1\fs22 Skimlet's Journey\cf0\ulnone\fs20\par
\b\fs22 Theme\b0\fs20 : Skimlet's first solo mission. Real Glyph solving and story set up.\par
\b\fs22 Location\b0\fs20 : Thaumhaven and the surrounding area\par
\b\fs22 Character\b0\fs20 : Skimlet\par
\b\fs22 Total Number of Puzzles\b0\fs20 : 60\par
\par
Skimlet Fjordson, a nervous young wizard not long out of his apprenticeship days, sets out to investigate the strange happenings in Thaumhaven town and to put them right with the help of Methusaleh's wand. Skimlet played an important role in thwarting Edizon's recent plans but he's eager to prove himself alone! This light-hearted journey throws him into a series of testing and intimidating situations.\par
\par
\par
\b Location 1 \b0 - Blacksmith (tools hang from a open, wood building set next to a forge)\par
Mouse pointer = Wand\par
Puzzles = 9\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
\par
\f1 SKIMLET:\par
"Alright this is it, the world's least famous wizard \cf2 embarks \cf0 on his first solo mission." (Standard)\par
"Come on Skimlet you can do it, it's only the fate of Thaumhaven \cf2 town \cf0 depending on you. No pressure." (Concentrating)\par
"\cf2 OK\cf0 , got my Wand? Check. Magic hourglass? Check." (Standard)\par
"Town in peril? Check. Scary gremlin causing havoc? -Check!-" (Nervous)\par
"Right, now where do I-" (Curious)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"OI! C'mere you!" (Loud bubble, Angry)\par
"Someone's turned all me tools into flippin' stone tablets! Are you responsible fer this?" (Gruff)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I - I- ..." (Scared bubble, Nervous)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Spit it out!" (Angry)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I'm here to put things right." (Forced smile)\par
"This rather imposing fellow is Hoskin Blackthumb, and he doesn't take kindly to magical funny business." (Quiet bubble, Conspiratorial)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Grrr! I don't take kindly to magical funny business, y'know!" (Gruff)\par
"I dunno if I should trust me livelihood to some wand-waving wizard!" (Gruff)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Well, you see there's this thing on the loose and-"\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"I don't even want ter know, I jus' want me tools back!" (Angry)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I can have those fixed in a jiffy,... (gulp) Sir." (Forced smile)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Hurumph! We'll see." (Gruff)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Okay, here we go - and this time it's for \cf2 REAL\cf0 !" (Conviction)\par
 \par
\par
(\b 1\b0 ) Anvil - Good simple puzzle to start, and build Skimlet's and the player's confidence\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Something's \cf3 happening!"(Shock)\par
"Whoa!" (Loud, Skimlet & anvil)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Me anvil!" (Loud, happy)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Hey, Methusaleh's wand really does work!" (Awe)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Hrm, it looks a'right. This old beauty was made to last the ages." (Gruff)\par
"Fine, ye can fix the rest o' me stuff too - what's yer name?" (Gruff)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Skimlet. And I'll fix 'em, no problem!" (Happy)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"A'right don't get cocky, Nibblet!" (Gruff)\par
\par
\par
(\b 2\b0 ) Hammer - Just a little tougher\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Blackthumb's hammer, I've freed it from the glyph!" (Success)\par
"Phew, it weighs more than me!" (\cf2 Straining to hold it up\cf3 )\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Ah, me small hammer. Now I can stick it back in me tool belt where it belongs. (pat pat)" (Gruff)\par
\par
\par
(\b 3\b0 ) Pickled Mutton Bap \par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I think I found your - lunch?!" (Disgust)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Mmm-mm, pickled mutton bap." (Happy)\par
"Only Mrs Blackthumb knows how to keep the lard so crispy." (Happy)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"(gulp) You're a lucky man." (Cough)\par
\par
\par
(\b 4\b0 ) Horseshoe\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"One iron horseshoe, back to normal!" (Standard)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"No-one in a hundred leagues of here makes them any finer. Mebee, no-one in the whole of Magus Magna."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"..." (Happy)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"AND IT AIN'T DONE WITH NO MAGICAL FUNNY BUSINESS, NEITHER!" (Loud, Angry)\par
"Only things a real man can rely on in this world are elbow grease and hard graft!"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Heheh!" (Nervous)\par
\par
\par
(\b 5\b0 ) Bucket\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"There, it's Blackthumb's water bucket. I really am getting the hang of this wand."\par
"That gremlin doesn't stand a chance! ... right?" (Conviction)\par
\par
\par
(\b 6\b0 ) Tongs ... the difficulty continues to increase slightly\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Me tongs. Me lovely tongs, back where they belong." (Happy)\par
"A man doesn't feel right if he don't know where his tongs are." (Gruff)\par
\par
\par
(\b 7\b0 ) Sword\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Oops! Sharp!" (Surprise)\par
"Here's your sword, sir." (Standard)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Careful with that, pup. You don't look old enough to be handling weaponry, or to be swinging that wand about fer that matter!" (Gruff)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I assure you, I'm - (ahem) - fully qualified for the job." (Forced smile)\par
"If being the only available wizard within three leagues of here makes me qualified, that is." (Thought, curious)\par
\par
\par
(\b 8\b0 ) Shield\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"That's one o' me finest heraldry shields. There better not be a scratch on it." (Gruff)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"-Yes-, chalk up another victory for the wizard in the baggy blue robes!" (Happy)\par
"I knew I could do this!" (Conviction)\par
\par
\par
(\b 9\b0 ) Underpants dangling on a line\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Ack\b , \b0 underpants!... still ...warm." (Wobbly bubble, Skimlet holding Y-fronts)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Ahhh, me \cf2 favorite \cf3 cacks. I left em hanging over the forge, keeping toasty."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"H-here you are..." (Wobbly bubble, disgust)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Hey, I'm.. I'm all done!" (Surprise)\par
"Alright, that was a breeze!" (Success)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Not too shabby, not too shabby at all. Good job." (Happy)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"You're welcome, sorry you were inconvenienced." (Blush)\par
"It won't happen again." (Standard)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Yeh, well. Maybe I've been a bit premature, like. You're a'right, kid. Perraps not all wizards are namby-pamby wastes of space." (Happy)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Thank-"\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Just the vast majority of them." (Gruff)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"...Eheh, well duty calls. Good bye, Mr Blackthumb!" (Standard)\par
\par
HOSKIN:\par
"Me friends call me Hoskin, lad. You come by if y'ever need anything." (Gruff)\par
\par
\par
\b Location 2 \b0 - Town Square (Open cobbled area with scattered market wares)\par
Puzzles = 8\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Market day. Or at least it should be. Look at this mess..." (Standard)\par
"The \cf2 Book \cf3 said a gremlin is responsible for all of this, but it looks like a mump ox charged through here!" (Surprise)\par
"Well, at least it doesn't look like anyone has been hurt." (Standard)\par
"Traders come from all over Magus Magna to set up stalls and sell their wares. Thank goodness, everyone appears to have fled for safety." (Standard)\par
"Thaumhaven may be a sleepy, peaceful place, but the townsfolk are used to enough trouble to know how to avoid it!" (Grin)\par
"..." (Curious)\par
"Aha! There are the Glyphs I saw before I ran to the library." (Concentration)\par
"And now I can do something about it. Magic time!..." (Conviction)\par
\par
\par
(\b 1\b0 ) Apple with bite\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Oh my...(gasp!)" (Surprise)\par
"The \b - \b0 the gremlin took a bite right out of this apple before glyphing it!" (Surprise)\par
\par
\par
(\b 2\b0 ) Thick socks\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Thick wooly socks." (Standard)\par
"Maybe I should leave a couple of coins and keep these... I wonder how far North the journey will take me? " (Thought, curious)\par
"Ha! I'm probably being ridiculous." (Thought, Standard)\par
\par
\par
(\b 3\b0 ) Mushroom \par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Mushrooms from Nether Weir! They would have been sitting... there on Wanderer Murdo's stall when the gremlin showed up." (Concentrating, \cf2 holding black mushroom with red spots\cf3 )\par
"They're a rare delicacy here in Thaumhaven, although a bit too spicy for most tastes." (Conspiratorial)\par
"I accidentally used some of these in a mushroom omelette I made for Master Howard last year." (Conspiratorial)\par
"...Once he'd climbed back out of the nearest pond, he wasn't best pleased." (Quiet, blush)\par
\par
\par
(\b 4\b0 ) Necklace\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"A silver necklace and locket, it's very striking. It'd be a gift fit for a princess..." (Curious)\par
"Ahhh, Kara!" (Love)\par
"Will you ever know that I exist?" (Heartbroken)\par
"...I think I'll just tuck it back onto the Jeweller's stall." (Blush)\par
\par
\par
(\b 5\b0 ) Cat - the small stray unlucky enough to get in Pox's way in the intro sequence\par
\par
\cf2 KITTY:\par
"Weow!"\cf3\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Hey kitty, are you okay?!" (Curious)\par
"Wow, off he goes. I guess he's not hurt at all!" (Standard)\par
\par
\par
(\b 6\b0 ) Pie\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"It's a large fruit pie - with footprints in it!" (Surprise)\par
"That thing is a menace!" (Cross)\par
\par
\par
(\b 7\b0 ) Poo\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Errrgh! That's... I hope no one saw me solve that one." (Disgust)\par
"The creature is toying with me and I'm -not- going to stand for it!" (Wobbly buble, Blushing, cross conviction)\par
\par
\par
(\b 8\b0 ) Statue of Methusaleh - the first 16x16 (four 8x8s) puzzle.\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Whoo! That took some solving, and now I can see why... it's the Town Square's statue of Methusaleh." (Standard)\par
"I can just make out the weathered inscription..." (Concentration)\par
"'Constructed to commemorate the achievements of the Great Wizard Oban Methusaleh, who did rid the world of a terrible magical menace.'" (Concentration)\par
"'Ne'er shall the Pox Gremlins threaten Thaumhaven's fine streets and spires again.'" (Concentration)\par
"It's funny, but I'd never paid this old thing much attention before. It's been here so many centuries that it just became part of the scenery." (Standard)\par
"Wow, so Methusaleh really did rid the world of the gremlins with this very wand!" (Awe)\par
"But then where did this new gremlin come from? And why is it here?" (Curious)\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\cf2 "Well, it looks like my work is done here too. What a buzz!"\cf3  (Happy)\par
"If I keep moving, maybe I can catch the gremlin before it causes any more chaos!" (Standard)\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf4 **************************EXTRA SCENE**************************\cf3\par
\par
\b Location 3 \b0 - Farthing Lane\par
Puzzles = 0\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
SKIMLET:\par
"It's that kitty again! Hey, what are you doing zipping back and forth, little guy?" (Standard)\par
\par
KITTY:\par
"Weow!!" (Kitty running towards, big eyes)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Come back here." (Standard)\par
\par
KITTY:\par
"Weow! Wee-eeow!" (Kitty running away)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Slow down, will you?" (Happy)\par
\par
\par
Ending Dialogue:\par
KITTY:\par
"WEAAAOW!" (Kitty running away, looking back)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Huh? Look, I don't know what you're ..." (Curious)\par
"What the-! That's Reuben's Pasticceria - and it's on fire!!!" (Shock)\par
\par
\par
\b Location 4 \b0 - Fire!\par
Puzzles = 2\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Stay -put-, you!" (Concentrating)\par
\par
KITTY:\par
"Wew." (Standing still)\par
\par
SKIMLET: \par
"Hello? Mr Reuben? HELLO?" (Illuminated by fierce flames inside the bakers, shouting)\par
"If there's anyone trapped in here... stand back!"\par
"Aquas!!!" (Skimlet uses his water magic to bust through the flames)\par
\par
FIRE AND WATER:\par
"*pshhhhhh!*"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Ack! *cough* I think that's done it." (Coughing)\par
"Hey..." (Standard)\par
\par
KITTY:\par
"Mew! Mew!" (Mewing at two glyph tablets on the floor, that are charred around the edges)\par
\par
SKIMLET: (amused) "I thought I told you to stay put?"\par
\par
KITTY:\par
"MEW!" (Mewing at the two tablets)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Alright! I'm on it!" (Grin)\par
\par
\par
(\b 1\b0 ) The Baker's Oven\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Oh my! No wonder this place caught fire. Old 'Pox' glyphed the oven and the burning logs spilled out onto the floor!" (Surprise)\par
"That does it. I've -got- to catch him before anything else like this happens." (Cross)\par
\par
\par
(2) The Baker - Reuben \par
\par
REUBEN:\par
"BWA! My store, it'sa on fire!!!" (Panicked)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Calm down, please! You're safe now, the fire's all out. Although the store..." (Standard)\par
\par
REUBEN:\par
"...ah, a leetle scorched around za edges. But, it coulda have been mucha worse." (Grateful)\par
"I hadda to patch it up from worse zan zis when my sister tried to bake Brandy biscotti, last year." (face_Nathan-Lane)\par
\par
\par
Ending Dialogue:\par
REUBEN:\par
"Thank you thank you! I weel be back in business in'a no time."\par
\par
KITTY:\par
"Mew." (Perched on the warm Oven top smiling)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"You have someone else to thank too. I don't think I'd have got here in time if it wasn't for your cat." (Grin)\par
\par
REUBEN:\par
"Hoohoo, my little stray? He's a good luck, no? And he seems to have taken a real shine to you."\par
"What you say Doughball - maybe the nice'a man should keep you as a reward?"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Oh, I don't know..." (Curious)\par
\par
DOUGHBALL:\par
"..." (Looking very wide eyed, implacably up at Skimlet)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I've never had a familiar before." (Grins)\par
\par
DOUGHBALL:\par
"Mew mew!!" (Doughball leaps, mewing excitedly - eyes closed)\par
\par
REUBEN:\par
"Ha ha, thats'a very good." (Grateful)\par
"He have a nasty habit of leaving furballs on'a da pastry anyway. It'sa not so good for beezness."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I'll be back to pick him up, but first I have a Gremlin to catch." (Conviction)\par
\par
\par
\cf4 *********************END OF EXTRA SCENE*********************\cf3\par
\par
\par
\par
\b Location 5 \b0 - Shade Street (Narrow street with an empty metal wall hook)\par
Puzzles = 1\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Old Burn Avenue... Crumble Lane... Shade Street..." (Curious)\par
"Shoot! Which way did it go? I've never been in this part of town before." (Cross)\par
"I need a sign, any kind of sign!" (Nervous)\par
"Hey, that's odd. It looks like there use to -be- a sign right here..." (Standard)\par
"\cf2 And here's a new glyph!" (Loud, Conviction)\cf3\par
\par
\par
(\b 1\b0 ) Hanging sign for the Axe and Stump Tavern\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Yes! The glyph is beaten and -" (Success)\par
\par
\par
\b Location 6 \b0 - Shade Street\par
Puzzles = 0\par
(The Location graphic now shows a detailed color version of the Tavern's sign hanging in place. The painting is of an Axe imbedded in a tree Stump, but a thin trickle of blood from the stump hints at a double meaning.)\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Oh no!.. oh, I think I'm going to be ill." (Quiet, Shock)\par
"The Axe and Stump Tavern." (Quiet, Conspiratorial)\par
"Long ago this used to be a cheerful little inn for lumberjacks and other woods folk..." (Conspiratorial)\par
"Gradually it became the notorious haunt of the worst kinds of rogues, warriors and brigands! The name took on a whole new meaning." (Nervous)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"It's the last place I want to go, but if Pox came this way... " (Curious)\par
"...And \cf2 they say \cf3 if there's one place to go when you need information about dodgy goings on..." (Nervous)\par
"Ok, Ok, Ok. Steel yourself Skimlet, you're a fully fledged wizard. Holder of the seat of Aquarius and the mighty elemental power of Water." (Quiet bubble, Conviction)\par
"You're big enough to \cf2 stroll \cf3 into a Tavern and just ask a few questions." (Standard)\par
"(deep breath)" (Strain)\par
"Here goes nothing!" (Quiet, Nervous)\par
\par
\par
\b Location 7 \b0 - The Axe and Stump (Inside the tavern - dark wood, smoky colors)\par
Puzzles = 8\par
\par
Intro dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Hello, is anyone-?" (Quiet, Surprise)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"HUUUOOOARGH!!" (Loud, silhouette of man with axe)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"YEEEAAA-AAA-AAA!" (Loud, Screaming)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"\cf2 Oh, sorry there squire! I mistook you for a gremlin\cf3 ." (Cheerful)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"(Huff huff) That's - that's okay - (huff huff) \cf2 - easily done\cf3 ." (Strain)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"\cf2 Allow me to introduce myself: Wilfred 'The Destroyer', the best bloody Beserker in the business. Or at least I was." \cf3 (Cheery)\par
"'Death's Doorman' they called me. 'The Screaming Blade', 'Old Bloodletter', 'Backbreaker', 'Gnawer of Souls'" (Gruesome)\par
"... um what else, let's see... 'Eye Gouger'... 'Marrow-sucker' (not the vegetable, the, y'know, gooey stuff in your bones)..." (Gruesome)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"..." (Shock)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Ahh, but times change. The world moves on. These days people mostly call me Wilf. I own and run this \cf2 luvverly \cf3 Tavern." (Cheery)\par
"I miss the gore and the screamin', of course. But on a Friday night it's almost like the good old days. Hwah-hwah!" (Cheery)\par
"So what's it gonna be, squire? Pint of our best grog, Skull Splitter, the Old Horizontal?" (Cheery)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I'm... no. I'm investigating the strange happenings in town. Have you seen a gremlim...." (Standard)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Oh it's been through here, alright."\par
"Scared off all my regulars, I mean they're the toughest scum around but they didn't fancy getting turned into doorstops."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Ah, stone glyphs!"\par
\par
WILF:\par
"I'll do you a deal, squire. You straighten up my gaff and I'll tell you which way he bugg-, I mean, scampered off."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Deal!" (Conviction)\par
\par
\par
(\b 1\b0 ) Tankard\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"It's a grimy tankard of something dark and frothy, that smells like creosote." (Standard)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"The Axe and Stump's best grog. Help yourself, it'll lubricate your brain muscles!" (Cheery)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Actually, I think I'm a bit, er - young, thanks." (Standard)\par
\par
\par
(\b 2\b0 ) Stool\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"One bar stool, good as new." (Happy)\par
"Well, as good as before." (Standard)\par
\par
\par
(\b 3\b0 ) Tooth\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Argh, I think I've found someone or something's tooth!" (Disgust)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Just chuck it back on the floor, guv."\par
"I haven't swept up after last nights brawl yet, there'll be a motley collection of 'personal bits' scrapping around anyway."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"(shudder)" (Cough)\par
\par
\par
(\b 4\b0 ) Keg of Grog - Large 16x16 (4 8x8s).\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Phew, that multi-part glyph took a while. It's always satisfying to beat those." (Standard)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"'Ey! Glory be, you've rescued my Grog barrel. Now I can serve the homicidal masses again!"\par
\par
\par
(\b 5\b0 ) Ros\'e9 grog\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Here you are. A glass of... paint stripper?" (Curious, \cf2 holding glass\cf3 )\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Rose-ay Grog ...for the ladies." (Cheery)\par
\par
\par
(\b 6\b0 ) Trophy\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"What the-?" (Curious)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Quite the conversation piece, ain't he squire? Lovingly stuffed and mounted."\par
"(sigh) It's a sad reminder of my Berserker days though. If it weren't for the unfortunate accident I'd never have retired..." (Sad smile)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Um, 'accident'?" (Curious)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"How was I supposed to know swamp trolls had become a protected species?!" (Sad smile)\par
"It's blummin' political correctness gone mad!" (Gruesome)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"... yes, that -is-... very 'unfortunate'." (Forced smile)\par
\par
\par
(\b 7\b0 ) Peacekeeper\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Hmm, a deadly weapon of some kind?" (Standard)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"My trusty peacekeeper." (Cheery)\par
"A quick THWOMP over the head calms the \cf2 rowdiest \cf3 of customer. Works a treat." (Gruesome)\par
\par
\par
(\b 8\b0 ) Darts Board\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Oh smashing, pass it over ...it wouldn't be a proper tavern without its darts board."\par
"That's the most important thing, you know, after the Grog, the Grog-nuts and the concealed weaponry!"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I've never seen one before - It's some kind of sporting game of skill?"\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Oh yeah, that's the idea. A true gentleman's game."\par
"Although to tell the truth it leads to more bloody arguments than anyfing else around here..."\par
"Still, tradition's tradition. Decapitations or not."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I'm, er... I'm learning a lot from you." (Standard)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Would you look at that, you've cleared up. The Axe and Stump is \cf2 back \cf3 open for business!"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Yes, I've survived my first (and probably last) trip to a tavern!" (Thought, Standard)\par
"Well, I'd better be going before your clientelle returns, Wilf." (Forced smile)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"One for the road, squire? I've got to reward you somehow."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Um, that's okay - I just need to know which way the gremlin went."\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Oh blimey yeah. When I popped my head up from behind the bar I did catch sight of it running off."\par
"Straight down that road. Towards the farmsteads."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
\cf2 "Out of town?" \cf3 (Surprise)\par
"Shoot! I have to get moving! Thanks." (Standard)\par
\par
WILF:\par
"Hey, squire! Poke its eyes out for -me-!!!..." (Loud, gruesome)\par
"...(sigh)...happy days." (Sad smile)\par
\par
\par
\b Location 8 \b0 - Artemis Groat's Farm (Pastures and fences, distant outbuildings)\par
Puzzles = 6\par
\par
Intro dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"That gremlin can't have got far,\cf2  I've got to be nearly \cf3 on its tail by now!" (Standard)\par
"If they have tails? I wish I'd thought to ask the barkeeper what it looked like!" (Thought, Cross)\par
"Well whatever. Watch out... Pox!" (Standard)\par
"You've had your fun but I'm sending you back to whatever dark nook you crawled out from!" (Conviction)\par
"... (puff puff) ... this sure is a long way..." (Thought, Strain)\par
"HUH? What on earth is making those weird sounds?" (Nervous)\par
\par
SIGN:\par
"There's a huge barn up ahead - 'Groat's Farm, supplier of Thaumhaven's finest M.M. foods.'"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"M.M.?" (Curious)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Magically Modified! The blessed marriage of farming and wizardry!"\par
"Some call it terrifying..."\par
"Some say I'm unhinged..."\par
"But by golly, I call it the tantalising future of produce and livestock!"\par
"Artemis Groat, at your service and in your debt on this fine day, good sir wizard."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Um, pleased to meet you too sir." (Standard)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
\cf2 "It's an absolute honor! Nothing at all would have been possible without students of the magical arts like yourself."\cf3\par
"You will come and take a tour of my humble achievements won't you? Your opinions would mean so much!"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"...I'm sorry, but..."\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"And on the tour, perhaps you could work out what's turned some of my creations to stone?..."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"\cf2 More glyphs. It \cf3 looks like luck is keeping me on the right track!" (Thought, conviction)\par
"Alright, lead the way Artemis." (Grin)\par
\par
\par
[This location features the first appearance of 10x10 puzzles.]\par
\par
(\b 1\b0 ) Magic hoe \par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"\cf2 Tougher! \cf3 That's odd. The wand had to create a bigger grid to help me beat that one." (Concentration)\par
"I wonder how big glyphs can get?!" (Wobbly bubble, Surprise)\par
"Still, it was no match for me. Here you are Artemis!" (Happy)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"My magic hoe! I had this specially enchanted for easy field work." (Beam)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Very, er - practical." (Standard)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Exactly! You've got it in one!"\par
"Magical studies are advancing at a fantastic rate and enriching the lives of those brave enough to apply them!"\par
"Oh, some may look on pioneers like myself as eccentrics - but the rewards of this, science!, are limitless!"\par
"Mwa-ha-haa-HA-HAA!" (Loud bubble, Maniacal laughing)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Eep!"\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Sorry, I -can- get a bit carried away. It's just all so exciting!"\par
\par
\par
(\b 2\b0 ) Squppig\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Oh my ... That's a handsome... that's... what the heck is that?!" (Surprise)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"This is a Squppig, my good wizard!" (Happy)\par
\par
\cf2 SQUPPIG:\par
"Squoink."\cf3\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Square... pigs." (Standard)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"I named this particular fellow Cubert. Plucky little devil -" (Standard)\par
\cf2 "- And very convenient for meat loaf one day! You see!" (Maniacal)\cf3\par
\par
\par
(\b 3\b0 ) A sack of Thaumic Grain\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"A large sack of grain." (Standard)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Yes indeed. -Thaumic- grain, full of wizardly goodness."\par
"I couldn't have raised my Quadruphens without."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"You have four-legged chickens?"\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Well, not anymore. I'll need to look into building taller fences before I try that again."\par
\par
\par
(\b 4\b0 ) Monster turnip\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Uh, Artemis? I'm sorry - I think something went horribly wrong with this one!" (Curious)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Ha! No, no, no. This is a new strain of Gigantic 'Neep!" (Beam)\par
"I'm no wizard, but I'm proud to say \cf2 they are the startling fruits of \cf3 my -own- modest experiments." (Beam)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Monster turnips! T-this isn't right, Artemis!" (Loud, Shock)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Yes, I am having trouble convincing my customers to eat vegetables with faces. Sad, really."\par
\par
\par
(\b 5\b0 ) Gingham Sheep\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Aha, another original wonder of Groat Farm's magical, animal husbandry." (Standard)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"A gingham sheep? Well, I guess that -is- pretty impressive." (Happy)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Now I just need to figure out how to grow much, much flatter versions. Instant tablecloths!" (Standard)\par
"Hmm, perhaps some flat fish and a good morphic spell would do the trick?" (Quiet, Intense)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"*shudder*" (Forced smile)\par
\par
\par
(\b 6\b0 ) Pasty\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Mmm, that smells good!"\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Nothing beats farm-fresh food! Here, take some of these hot pasties with you."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"If you insist. \cf2 I'm starved!" \cf3 (Happy)\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"Made from Squppig, Monster Neep and Gingham Sheep! I'm sure you'll find it an eye-opening experience!"\par
"Oh dear. Something gone down the wrong way, has it?"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"(Hack hack!)" (Cough)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Well, I think you'll find everything returned to - normal." (Standard)\par
"You have a most, 'startling' place here Farmer Groat. It's quite an 'achievement'."\par
\par
GROAT:\par
"You really think so? A true, elemental wizard thinks so? Why, I'm lost for words..." (Intense)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"...me too." (Standard)\par
"I have to go, but maybe I'll call in again sometime. Just to, uh, keep an eye on things..."\par
\par
GROAT:\par
\cf2 "Please, I'm going to redouble my efforts. Next time I'll -really- impress you!" \cf3 (Standard)\par
"Good gremlin hunting!"\par
\par
\par
\b Location 9 \b0 - Green fields (Wide open grasslands and a winding country road)\par
Puzzles = 0\par
\par
Intro dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"\f2 I'm leaving the town far behind now... look how tiny the Librarium Arcana's spires are." \f1 (Worried)\par
"Heh. It's not as if I haven't left Thaumhaven before, but it is getting harder to figure out where 'Pox' is." (Standard)\par
"Or what he's doing..." (Concentration)\par
"Hang on, let me get out my Map -" (Standard)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"The Blacksmiths. The Town Square. From The Axe & Stump, up to Groat's farm." (Concentration)\par
"It's almost a straight line, and if he -follows- that line, it would lead him to..."(Concentration)\par
"(Gasp)... Master!" (Shock) \par
\par
\par
\b Location 10 \b0 - Howard's Wizlab (Interior of a large cottage with magical equipment)\par
Puzzles = 5\par
\par
Intro dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Howard?" (Loud, Surprise)\par
"Master Howard are you home? Egads! I should have got here sooner."\par
"I didn't expect Pox to be this daring, besides, the location of every Wizard's Laboratory is a well guarded secret!" (Nervous)\par
"Shoot, there's no sign of him."\par
"..!" (Shock)\par
"But there are signs of the gremlin!!" (Surprise)\par
"And I can't be sure, but, it almost feels as if it's -still here-." (Quiet bubble, Surprise)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"If you come face to face with the creature, strike him with the wand!" (Flashback)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I remember your words, Methusaleh. \cf2 I-I-I'm ready \cf3 for the worst!" (Concentration)\par
\par
\par
(\b 1\b0 ) Staff \par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"It's Howard's staff, the focus of his Earth magic."\par
"He wouldn't leave this unattended, any more than I'd leave my Water hat lying around." (Worried)\par
\par
\par
(\b 2\b0 ) Pipe\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"His pipe... still lit! This isn't good." (Surprise)\par
"Come on Skimlet, hurry!" (Worried)\par
\par
\par
(\b 3\b0 ) Book\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Look at this, it's a book about Pox Gremlins! Howard must have been anticipating something." (Standard)\par
"It's lying open on this page:" (Concentration)\par
"'For a brief period, 500 years ago, wizards took to using a most unusual accessory.'" (Book)\par
"'Many gave up their typical familiars, in favor of a type of gremlin with powers of transformation.'" (Book)\par
"'These Pox Gremlins were able to turn the most cumbersome of items into handy, pocket sized tablets of stone.'"\par
"'And so, word of their usefulness and their popularity spread across the lands like wildfire.'"\par
"'Unfortunately, ... th ... lins were uncont...'"\par
"Oh, the rest has been crudely ripped out. Shredded by tiny claws!" (Surprise)\par
"(gulp)" (Nervous)\par
\par
\par
(\b 4\b0 ) Scrye\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Cripes! Howard's owl was trapped in that glyph!" (Surprise)\par
"\cf2 Hey, Scrye... you're fine, aren't you\cf3 ? There's not a feather out of place." (Happy)\par
"He looks totally unfazed, patiently waiting for his master's return..." (Standard)\par
"\cf2 Where is he, Scrye? What's happened\cf3 ?" (Worried)\par
\par
\par
(\b 5\b0 ) Howard III - The first 15x15. As with all final locations on a journey, this last puzzle can't be attempted until the previous ones are solved. The glyph in the selection area will be marked with a 'W'. This will also be the first appearance of Pox working against you - a great way to end the demo and up the challenge. When Howard's portrait is solved the marks sparkle and are replaced with solid color squares corresponding to a color version.\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Master!!!..." (Success)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"\cf2 Haha, yes, quite so! \cf3 Though you musn't call me Master, my old apprentice." (Standard)\par
"You've proven yourself far beyond your days of study, especially today it seems!" (Smile)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"You're safe!" (Happy)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"\cf2 Mrrk! *smack smack* It tastes like I've had a mouthful of gravel - but aside from that..."  \cf3 (Curious)\par
"...Yes, I am myself again." (Happy)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Ohhh." (Weak)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"Come, sit down Skimlet. Don't falter now." (Smile)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Sorry, m-my head feels *woozy*. Take it!" (Weak)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"\cf2 My goodness! What have we here? This \cf3 wand, this -is- the Vanglorian isn't it?" (Howard holding the wand)\par
"\cf2 Methusaleh's old wand. \cf3 Marvelous, this is precisely what we need. But I had thought it was lost to the ages?!" (Surprise)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I found it. And I've chased Pox all the way here from Thaumhaven." (Grin)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"'Pox', you say?... Bravo! If we didn't have this weapon I don't know how we'd stop the gremlin." (\cf2 Beam\cf3 )\par
"I must say, Aquarius' old robes seem to fit you a little better today." (Smile)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Hehe! So, let's finish this and go for tea. It can't have got far." (Grin)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"I'm afraid... it's not that simple. In fact there are events in motion that are more serious than you know." (Standard)\par
"My feathered 'spy' over there has told me where Pox originated from..." (Standard)\par
"...EDIZON'S LAB!" (Grave)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
\cf2 "Edizon? The Lightning wizard, Edizon?! But we stopped him!" \cf3 (Shock)\par
"\cf2 We saw to that personally! \cf3 You, I and Matthius - we locked him away in a magic-proof, mountain cell at the top of the world." (Shock)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"Yes, and that is still true. The crazy, old fool is indeed powerless and placed where he can longer attempt to harm anyone..." (Standard)\par
"...But the gremlin was his contingency, Skimlet. His back-up plan!" (Alarm)\par
"I suspect that the events in the city were merely a preamble. Its main purpose is finding the fastest way North - to free its Master!" (Alarm)\par
"Freed from his prison, Edizon can continue his plans of unleashing an Army of Golems that will enslave all the people of Magus Magna!" (Alarm)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"...no ...I \cf2 have to\cf3 ..." (Wobbly bubble, Weak)\par
\par
HOWARD:\par
"Rest young Skimlet. \cf2 You have performed \cf3 brilliantly! I can take the wand and pursue the creature from here." (Standard)\par
"Ahh, but how?!" (Thought, grave)\par
\cf2 "The Gremlin itself poses more immediate dangers to the world than even it's Master, far greater than my young pupil realises." (Grave)\par
\cf3 "\cf2 And \cf3 Pox is headed into the great, dense Forests beyond my Wizlab where it will be *impossible* even for me to track him..." (Grave)\par
"Is all lost?!" (Thought, wistful)\par
"What ray of sun can we look to in these dark times?" (Thought, Wistful)\par
\par
\par
<end of demo>\par
\par
\par
\par
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\par
\par
\ul [Notes]\ulnone\par
\par
\par
The final dialogue in Skimlet's Journey can be the same for both the demo and the full version of the game, but the end of demo nag screen should use text and pictures to emphasize all of the great things that lie ahead; hundreds more and bigger puzzles, many more playable wizards and supporting characters, more frantic battles with Pox, incredible sights and a chase across an entire continent to save the world!\par
\par
We can address the specifics of that at a later time, and figure out how to perfect the appeal of what;s to come.\par
\f0\par
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\par
}
 