{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red127\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang2057\ul\f0\fs20 Title: \cf1 "Glyphix 101"\ulnone\par
\cf0 Theme: Basic puzzles & advice from a true Glyphix Master\par
Location: Arcane Library\par
Character: Skimlet\par
Total Number of Puzzles: 11\par
\par
\par
This is a very simple, hands-on introduction to the world of Glyphix, with puzzles and advice presented via the Book of Glyph Lore, written long ago by the eccentric, Great Wizard Methusaleh. Its purpose is to take away any intimidation of the number grid - to ease the player into having fun solving puzzles and to use Methusaleh and Skimlet to show off some of the character and personality that will feature in the game. \par
\par
The location window shows the inside of the colossal library, the portrait window shows Skimlet, but when reading Methusaleh's words from the book it changes to show a wood-cut print illustration of him (long white eyebrows, and an even longer, thin white beard). The puzzles are effectively split into two groups, the first section of the book contains ten 5x5 puzzles, the second section contains a single tough 8x8 puzzle: Methusaleh's test of your potential.\par
\par
\par
Location 1 - Library (Huge, high-ceilinged room with glowy lights + multi-level shelves)\par
Mouse pointer = Quill\par
Puzzles = 0\par
\par
Intro dialogue: \par
\par
\cf2 LIBRARIAN: (Golden bust on podium):\par
"Hmm, Skimlet is it? Skimlet Fjordson. Well, don't stand around gawping. If you have an inquiry then spit it out." (Stern)\par
"This is the Librarium Arcana you know, not a sideshow fair."\cf0\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Yikes! I-I'm sorry!" (Cringing, embarrasment & blushing)\par
\cf3 "Um - something strange is happening in town. I'm here for..." (Nervous)\cf0\par
\par
LIBRARIAN:\par
"Lore Section. Ladder number 23, Row 7, Third from the left." (Impatient)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Yes, ah, thank you! Must hurry." (Skimlet, nervous smiling)\par
"How does she do that? Gee, I don't know exactly what I'm looking for myself!" (Thought bubble, nervous smiling)\par
"OK, OK, OK... row 7, first, second, third book from the left. Aha!"\par
\par
\par
Location 2 - Reading Room (Illuminated single desks, surrounded by shelves & ladders)\par
Mouse Pointer = Quill\par
Puzzles = 10\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
\cf3 "The Book of Glyph Lore?.. by Oban Methusaleh. It's 500 years old! Ohh, I hope this is it." (Concentration)\cf0\par
"*cough* *cough* Dusty!" (Coughing)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Dusty? DUSTY? No, no, my boy, you must be mistaken. A book as fine as this is in high demand!" (Woodcut, charismatic)\par
"Here within this most serediptitous of tomes, you may discover the very secrets of restoring that which has been turned into stone."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Hey, this sounds right. In town there were strange, stone tablets are all over the place..."\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf3 "Glyphs! Magical glyphs - the curse of the Pox Gremlin. Once considered a blessing, oh yes, but far from it. Far from it."\par
"Now allow me to impart my wisdom to you, in the shape of a series of elementary tests. And you, my lucky reader, will be on\cf0  the road to becoming a Glyphix Master such as I. Although, my shoes are large ones to fill, indeed."\par
"Do not be deterred, it is quite understandable to feel intimidated by my legendary talents."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"..."\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Now just keep this in mind, and it really is quite simple: a glyph's spell can be undone by working out its pattern on a grid!" (Page in the portrait window shows a grid)\par
\cf2 "And by pattern I mean that a little picture will form, resembling the item that has been enchanted."\cf0\par
\cf2 "First, \cf0 you will see numbers appear along two sides of the grid. These are the clues to the glyph's pattern." (Numbers appear next to the grid)\par
\cf3 "It is up to you to fill in the appropriate grid squares (by clicking them with the left mouse button)."\par
"For instance, a '3' would indicate that there are exactly three marks to be made -all in a line- on that row or column." (A group of 3 marks appears)\par
"Don't worry if it sounds complicated. I assure you a staggering simpleton could pass my tests." (Back to Methusaleh)\par
"I highly recommend that you attempt all ten in their proper order, starting with number 1. Do so and I'm certain you'll be up and running in no time, what?"\par
\cf2 "Well, there's no time like the present. You may as well leap right in!" \cf3\par
"Quill sharp and at the ready? Then begin!"\cf0\par
\par
\par
\cf1 [A visual effect should flash on all the unsolved glyphs to draw the player's attention and signify one should be clicked.]\par
\cf0\par
\par
(1) Solid black square - all 5's. Easiest of the easy.\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Ha ha, yes. Rather an easy one, even for you my humble student."\par
\cf3 "Every row and column required that 5 marks be made."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"No problem!" (Smile)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"But it does illustrate a most important point: every glyph has an element of certainty. Always look for that certainty and you will have found your place to begin!"\par
\cf2 "Well, let's see how you fare with the next! If you're following my advice then you will try glyph number 2."\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
(2) Diagonal filled - uses numbers 1,2,3,4,5. Very, very easy.\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I've done it\cf3 !" (Happy)\cf0\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Good, good. Start with certainty, in this case a full row of marks, and the rest of the solution soon falls into place, what?"\par
"Like Ogbeard's cloak, start pulling at a single thread and before long all is unravelled!"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
\cf3 "So, the clue numbers show -groups- of marks I have to make." (Conc.)\par
"By looking at the clues along the top and the bottom I can work out exactly where they must go, so I can break the spell!" (Conc.)\par
\par
\cf2 METHUSALEH:\par
"By George, I think he's got it."\cf3\par
\par
SKIMLET:\cf1\par
\cf0 "I actually hope the next one is a little more taxing." (Standard)\par
\par
\par
\par
(3) Negative diamond - first multiple numbers.\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf2 "Very good, -very- good. Now, do you see the diamond?"\cf0\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"\cf2 Huh? The diamond?" \cf0 (Confused)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf2 "That -empty- space in the centre of the solution!"\cf3\par
"Often what isn't there, is as important as what is. That's what helps you figure out the whole picture, my lad."\par
\cf2 "A good Glyphix Master always *blanks* out any squares that he knows to be empty! (Right-click them with the mouse)"\cf3\par
"I didn't get to where I am today by not Right-clicking my blanks!"\cf1\par
\cf0\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Uhhh... "right-clicking"...okay." (Nervous)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf3 "Oh, did I say that out loud?"\cf1\par
"Well it's excellent advice. Onto the next conundrum!"\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
(4) Sun - very easy.\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Yeah!" (Smile)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Ah you've solved my sun puzzle. You're coming along nicely!"\par
"And may this serve as a reminder - once you're out in the big, wide world the solutions will resemble the actual things that are trapped inside the glyphs."\par
\cf3 "Not the sun itself, of course. There was never a Pox Gremlin big enough to pull that off, thank goodness."\cf0\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Pox Gremlin?..."\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"All in good time, my boy."\par
\par
\par
(5) Pox's face - quite easy.\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Aha! Know the face of your enemy!"\par
\cf3 "Awkward, squirmy little ruffians they are. Brrr! I came up against my fair share of them, I can tell you."\cf0\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"So there really is something... loose out there... turning things into glyphs?!" (Shocked)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Prized possessions, livestock, even people can be turned into glyphs! The Gremlins were the scourge of wizard-kind!"\par
"You should really turn to some of my later chapters and relive my famous exploits... quite outstanding."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Um yes. I don't think there's time! Sorry." (Standard)\par
\par
\par
\par
(6) Heart - easy.\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I'm definitely getting the hang of these." (Smiling)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Ah yes, these dry runs are all well and good, but it is the practical test of your skills that will really separate the wizard from the wannabees."\par
\cf2 "Out there, in the mean streets, spine-chilling forests and terrible, dandruff-inducing mountains of the real world a Glyphix Master needs courage and perseverance to survive!"\cf0\par
"Heroism!" \cf2 (loud)\cf0\par
"That's what it demands, nothing more and nothing less!"\par
"(Although a spare pair of underpants is always a blessing)"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"*gulp*" (Nervous)\par
\par
\par
(7) Dollar sign - easy.\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Heroism and courage have their rewards!  Lucrative book deals for example. It is, how they say, all about the benjamins, bay-bee. *ahem* But I digress...".\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I'm sure that old coot was a few runes short of a spell." (Conspiratorial, Quiet)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf2 "Show some RESPECT, small-fry. Or I will turn my pages blank!"\cf0  (Loud)\par
\par
SKIMLET: \par
"Aieee!" (Shocked)\par
"Never talk back to a magic book, Skimlet." (Standard, quiet bubble)\par
\par
\par
(8) Timer - easy.\par
\par
METHUSALEH;\par
"Very good, I'm sure that one caused you no difficulties."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Is it supposed to be - an hourglass?"\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"-The- hourglass, my boy. It is a critical wizarding tool if you want to solve even the simplest of glyphs."\par
"Every glyph has a natural time limit in which its spell can be unwoven, you see. This fellow will help you keep track of how exactly long you have to make your attempt!"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"And if I fail?!" (nervous)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Oh, you can always have another stab at it I suppose. Not that I ever needed to."\par
"The trick is to make sure you don't place any marks incorrectly, that weakens your counter-magic and..."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Causes a time penalty!" (Smiling)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Got it in one, lad. You're a fast learner at least, if a bit wet behind the ears."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"...Heheh..." (Embarrased)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf3 "Real Glyphs are much bigger and have more elaborate, detailed solutions. So always keep one eye on your hourglass!"\par
\cf2 "(Although I've been told to inform you, that if you're playing in Casual Mode rather than Classic then all time limits are suspended)"\par
"(Suspended? That's rather a luxury. I'm a Classic type of man, myself. Sign of true Glyphix Master, what.)"\par
"Well, on to the next test!"\cf0\par
\par
\par
(9) Eye - medium.\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf3 "Well solved, this particular test puzzle represents the *magic eye*..."\cf0\par
"Every good wizard keeps a few extra tricks up his sleeve, you never know when you're going to find yourself in a tight spot."\par
"Oh, I remember one particular time I was out in the hinterlands of Bolsogovia. A dozen armed guards came storming in on myself and the Sultan's wife. Of course there was a quite innocent explanation -"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I really am in a hurry, Sir Methusaleh..."\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"...." (Away with the fairies expression)\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"*COUGH*"\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Hmm? Ah, yes we must stick to the matter at hand."\par
"As I was saying, when you find yourself on a particularly tough puzzle you may choose to speed things along and call on the magic eye of the Reveal Spell to uncover some of the solution!"\par
\par
\cf3 SKIMLET:\par
"A Reveal Spell? That sounds very useful." (Grin)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Quite so. Although its power is finite and must be used sparingly. Pity."\cf0\par
\par
\par
(10) Boat - toughest.\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"A little boat?"\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"There is a Journey ahead for he or she who undertakes the art of Glyph-solving. Perhaps a great Journey, indeed."\par
"For me it was a Journey that blazed around the entire world! A Journey that took me from the very depths of despair to the heights of fame and fortune, and everything in between."\par
"Ah, but that is simply history now. Who can say where yours will take you?"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"I'm not really looking for anything that e-exciting, to be honest!" (Nervous)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"NONSENSE!"\par
"All you need to remember are the following rules and ye shall be fine!:"\par
"Good boots are your best friends. Sleep little and often. Don't drink the water. Pack a spare hat. And, uhh, 'tis an ill wind that bears no moss."\par
"Oh wait ... 'tis an ill wind that... something something... look out for bears and don't eat the moss?" (Quiet, \cf3 Away with the fairies)\par
\cf0\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Um?"\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Well the important thing is... there's a fantastic path ahead of you, and I'm quite certainly, almost positive that you are well up to the task. I suspect. Stranger things have happened... <mumble>"\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
\cf2 "*nervous laugh" \cf0 (Nervous smile)\par
\par
~~~\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"So! You have completed my ten introduction puzzles."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Introduction?"\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"You've done well, but before I consider you to be worthy of my ...legacy... a more demanding test of your potential is in order."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
\cf2 "Alright then - I'm ready!" (Conviction)\cf0\par
\par
\par
Location 3 - Reading Room (desk light brightens)\par
Mouse pointer = Quill\par
Puzzles = 1\par
\par
Intro Dialogue:\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"This time the puzzle will be a little bigger."\par
"Begin!"\par
\par
\par
(1) Hand holding magic wand. Quite a tough puzzle! \par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"*Gasp* There, I've solved it!"\par
\par
BOOK:\par
"Indeed you have, my boy. I was never in any doubt." (Illustration of hand holding wand)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"What, what's happening?" (Surprise)\par
\par
BOOK:\par
"(musical note) ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh (musical note)" (Illuminated illustration of hand holding wand)\par
\par
BOOK:\par
"Take it, Skimlet!" (Vanglorian physically appears above the page)\par
\par
\par
\par
Location 4 - Reading Room (desk light returns to normal)\par
Mouse Pointer = Vanglorian\par
Puzzles = 0\par
\par
Intro dialogue:\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Egads!" (Skimlet holding the wand)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\cf1 "My Proto-Thaumic Caduceus! ... a -'Magic wand'- sonny. It has also gone by the name of Vanglorian, and now it is yours."\cf0\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Wow it's so light!" (Awe)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"There has only ever been one device made that can unweave real Glyphs, and this is it."\par
"Use it well, put things right."\par
\cf3 "And remember, if you come face to face with the creature, strike him with the wand!" (Serious)\cf0\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Okay... yeah." (Nervous smile)\par
"I -will- put things right! Let's do it!" (Conviction)\par
\par
\par
Ending dialogue:\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Good luck, my boy. I Oban Methusaleh; adventurer, heartbreaker, swordsman, saviour, Legend - have faith in you."\par
\par
SKIMLET:\par
"Thank you, Sir Methusaleh and goodbye!" (Portrait leaving)\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
"Hmm, nice lad. Might make a name for himself." (Thinking)\par
"If only he'd grow himself a handsome moustache he may even become half the man I was." (Thinking, \cf2 preening\cf0 )\par
\par
(Journey end)\f1\par
\par
\par
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\par
\par
\ul\b Portraits\ulnone\b0\par
\par
SKIMLET\par
\par
0 - Awe\par
1- Neutral: smile\par
2 - Conviction: small smile, raised fist\par
3 - Blushing, embarassed\par
4 - Nervous, upset\par
5 - Concealed Nervousness (forced smile)\par
6 - Blank/confused/questioning\par
7 - Concentration\par
8 - Cough/clear throat\par
9 - Shocked/Surprise\par
10 - Skimlet holding wand!\par
11 - Leaving\par
\par
\par
LIBRARIAN\par
\par
12 - Stern\par
13 - Impatient\par
\par
\par
METHUSALEH:\par
\par
14 - Charismatic/Amused (exaggerated)\par
15 - Standard, semi-charismatic with smile\par
16 - Serious\par
17 - Away with the fairies\par
\par
BOOK:\par
\par
18 - Grid\par
19 - Grid with numbers\par
20 - Grid with numbers and 3 marks\par
21 - Hand holding wand (illustration)\par
22 - Illuminated illustration\par
23 - Vanglorian over page\par
\par
EXTRA\par
\par
24 - Skimlet joy/celebration\par
25 - Conspiratorial/Quiet\par
\cf2 26 - Methusaleh, preening moustache\cf0\par
\par
}
 