{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red127\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red128\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\lang2057\ul\b\f0\fs22 Hero Glyphix - Journey 4\cf0\ulnone\fs28\par
\par
\cf2\fs20 "Hall of Visions"\par
\cf0\b0\par
Locations: 7\par
Puzzles: 27 in 155 parts\par
\par
Character:  Judith Belennia\par
\par
Theme:  Earth 2004\par
\par
Judith Belennia:  An enigmatic, almost timeless looking sorceress, the Lady of the Light Elemental. Her pale face radiates a classical beauty, she is dressed in long, luminous robes and a thin veil, fixed by a golden tiara which is the magical focus of her powers. Her world is one of shimmering visions and lights, and her subterranean realm (a passageway connecting the Southern lands to Matthius' Asian-styled home province) is a vast and powerful tool for viewing other places and times - \i travelling through the Hall of Visions is like travelling through the inside of a crystal ball. \i0 As a result of her peculiar lifestyle the Lady of Light is slightly otherworldy and detached although she still has human qualities, we've clearly seen her affection for Howard III.\par
\par
Joining her on this journey is, yes, Woodrot the lazy, rude, cowardly, smelly and thoroughly self-obsessed (and those are his best qualities) Wood-Sprite that Howard forcibly enlisted as a tracker in the hunt for Pox . The dynamic between Woodrot and Judith will play out quite differently than in the previous Journey.\par
\par
This stage is designed to create a change of pace and to break away from the fictional creations of Magus Magna for a short while whilst continuing to move the story forward to a lesser degree. The dialogue and character qualities will keep the player firmly rooted in the OTT universe, everything is seen through that filter, but at the same time it's an opportunity to let our audience enjoy more contemporary, recognisable puzzles. These are typically larger puzzles, and we will see the introduction of chance of randomly encountering Pox whilst solving the glyplets of a 4x4 puzzle (the F-Train).\par
\par
\par
\cf3\ul\b Location: Threshold\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Judith and Woodrot stand at the illuminated, arched entryway to what appears to be an endless tunnel.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Before us is a land of mystery, confusion and perils. We stand at the Threshold."\par
WOODROT: "Hey gorgeous, we only just met. I don't think we're ready for marriage."\par
WOODROT: "But I *like* that you've forgotten about Howie so quickly. Y'know, this could be the beginning of a-" (evil chuckle)\par
JUDITH: "Make no mistake, there is DANGER ahead!" (emphatic)\par
WOODROT: "Wuh-Why are you looking at me like that???"\par
JUDITH: "The gremlin has disturbed our path with his hexes. My Hall of Visions is in disequilibrium, it has been struck out of balance and out of my control."\par
JUDITH: "Another plane now intersects the Hall, a world of dark necromancy with danger at every turn and hideous forms too terrifying for mortal eyes!" (intense)\par
WOODROT: "Ehhh? ... hey what the-?!" (struggling, sack around feet)\par
WOODROT: "Mmph!!!" (tied in small, round sack)\par
JUDITH: "This is for your protection, Woodrot the Wood Sprite. I will allow no harm to come to you."\par
WOODROT: "Stuffing me in a sack doesn't count?" (floating sack, plain)\par
WOODROT: "Aargh-yah-yargle-YAH!" (sack stretched and pummelled by a flurry of arms and legs)\par
WOODROT: "... *pant* ..." (floating sack, plain)\par
JUDITH: "You are comfortable? Then our Dark Odyssey begins..."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf3\ul\b Location: Ephemera\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Judith and the floating magical sack that contains Woodrot, enter the Hall, where all is not as it should be. The location window shows vague glimmers of color and undefined eerie shapes.\par
\pard\li1136\par
JUDITH: "By Elysia's breath, this is not as it should be. All is wrong! Oh... Come my pretty ones, speak to me!"\par
JUDITH: "How can you be silent?" (concerned)\par
JUDITH: " - and yet, yes. This is the fate I was shown, as clearly as it now affronts my eyes."\par
WOODROT: "What's going on?" (floating sack, stretched upwards as if Woodrot's head and body is raised)\par
JUDITH: "Flux! Flux and chaos surrounds the harm the creature has wrought here! Its base magic has awoken visions from some underworld, and trapped them all around us."\par
JUDITH: "The whole of my realm is fixed on it, gazing onto that single wyrd place!"\par
WOODROT: "Let me out of the bag!!!"\par
JUDITH: "And we must free the visions from the Glyphs, let them walk among us so that the balance may be restored."\par
WOODROT: "Do NOT let me out of the bag!!! I am -staying- in the bag!!!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Mysterious globe - (Magic Eight Ball)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "A vision of a sphere - Shiny and black as midnight!"\par
JUDITH: "Ah, yes. The inhabitants of the other plane use this disturbing object to divine the future." (curious)\par
WOODROT: "What does it say about our chances?" (sack, curious)\par
JUDITH: "'Doubtful'..."\par
JUDITH: "Begone vision! Sparkle and scatter your lights into the velvet of shadow..." (gesturing away)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Buzzing Peaches - (Electric Can Opener)\par
\pard\li1136\par
JUDITH: "Hmmm, a buzzing, jagged wheel contraption affixed to a metal cylinder. 'Peach halves'... '-IN SYRUP-'. Possibly this is a kind of food-related, torturing device!"\par
WOODROT: "Keep it away!" (sack, alert!)\par
JUDITH: "Yes, fade, vision! Fade and fly away now."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Unearthly albino - (PC Mouse)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "*Gasp*!"\par
WOODROT: "W-what?" (sack, plain)\par
JUDITH: "It is some type of bizarre rodent. It does not seem to be very practical... scurrying about on a single, infernal wheel intead of legs!"\par
WOODROT: "Mommy!" (sack trembles)\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Devious trap - (Mailbox)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "I see a metal box sitting on a post, it has a door... and a jolly red flag."\par
WOODROT: "That doesn't sound so bad." (sack, plain)\par
JUDITH: "Or is that what we are meant to think?"\par
JUDITH: "Look closer, the word 'Mail' is inscribed, a crude mispelling of 'Meal'?... Something would lure us inside with the promise of food and then..."\par
WOODROT: "Then?" (sack, curious)\par
JUDITH: (loud) "SNAP!!!"\par
WOODROT: (sack jump) "****!"\par
JUDITH: "Depart vision, desist! Dissolve."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) "Stop"- (Stop Sign)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "'Stop', it commands. But stop what? Stop... everything?!"\par
JUDITH: "What an oppressive place this intersecting world must be!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(6) Caged homunculus - (TV set showing '67 Elvis comeback special)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Oh my."\par
WOODROT: "Huh?"\par
JUDITH: "A tiny sweaty man, dances inside a box... I-It is hypnotic..."\par
WOODROT: (sack bopping around) "Whoo! Do-doop-do-do!"\par
JUDITH: "...the incantation is powerful... ...but I... ...-I- must resist!... "\par
JUDITH: "Away vision!" (commanding pose)\par
\pard\par
\par
(7) Orange Blob People! - (Lava Lamp)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "What ghastly apparition floats before me? Is this some weird cauldron, or... No!"\par
LAVA LAMP: (waxy orange blobs float inside, lit underneath) \f1 "\lang1033 bloop* *BLUB!* *blop-bloop*"\lang2057\f0\par
JUDITH: (surprised) "...Are these virulent, orange blobs the very creatures that -rule- this otherworld?!"\par
WOODROT: (loud) "Bl-blob people?!"\par
JUDITH: "Quickly vision, vanish now! Before the blob overlords become aware of our presence!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 With order restored to the entrance of the Hall, Judith progresses onward. \par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Very good. Thus far we have made good progress, and I believe the waxy, orange blob-people have not been alerted to us. We must hope we can continue to elude them..."\par
JUDITH: "Chaos becomes Order, but there is still much disarray ahead of us."\par
WOODROT: "...um, Judith? I think there's - there's something in here with me."\par
WOODROT: "No, NO! Get Away. It's got MEEEE!" (sack, struggle)\par
WOODROT: "Oooch-Ow! *heeheehee* It tickles!" (sack, very bright inside revealing the silhouette of Woodrot)\par
SACK: (A small, yellow glow floats up and through the sack's material)\par
JUDITH: "Ah, my pretty ones! Seven of you are now freed from the Gremlin's magic." (smiling)\par
7 BRIGHT ETHERITES: "(musical notes in the speech bubble)"\par
WOODROT: (sack, sagging)"... ohh, the Universe is out to get me. This is payback for all those practical jokes."\par
WOODROT: (speaking quietly) "Haha! They were good times, but I was always having to say to the other Sprites: it'll wash out!... or, bee stings aren't nearly as bad as hornets! Geez, no sense of humor."\par
JUDITH: "*AHEM* Woodrot. She was trying to show you her gratitude." (glance)\par
WOODROT: "Huh?"\par
JUDITH: "The Hall of Visions is a special place, now as it forever will be and as it was long before my time. For it is the one home of the -Etherites-."\par
JUDITH: "These fair beings are essels or perhaps you would simply call them 'living lights'. It matters not."\par
JUDITH: "Know only that they are the sweet, insubstantial things that commune with Light Elementalists, such as I, across space and time." (Judith with an Etherite)\par
JUDITH: "They are the source of all of these visions - they grant \cf2 glimpses of the past, present and future of this and other worlds."\par
WOODROT: "Alright, alright. I don't need the details, just ask them to stay out of my bag?"\par
JUDITH: "...Hah, poor Sprite. You have nothing to fear, don't you know your own brethren?"\par
JUDITH: "Nevertheless, our task is clear. More etherites remain trapped by Pox's magic. We continue North under the mountains, to free the others and loosen the strange world's grip on this place."\cf0\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf3\ul\b Location: Motion\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Here the visions of the otherworld are more coherent, less random now - but no less strange to Judith & Woodrot. These are mainly 36x36 puzzles of varying difficulty.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: (sack bobbing) "Do-Doopy-do-do-do-dooo (musical note) with suspicious minds ...hrm? We're stopping again?"\par
JUDITH: "More Glyphs lie just ahead and no doubt in each we will find more Etherites."\par
JUDITH: "Come. Whilst even one remains trapped the Hall shall be set against us."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Cart with fins - (57 Chevy)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "A strange cart, with fins. I would fear to see the dreadful beast that pulls this contraption..."\par
WOODROT: "Why are these visions never good news?!"\par
JUDITH: "We must douse this illusion quickly, before the monster returns!"\par
WOODROT: "Well hurry up then!!!" (sack trembles)\par
JUDITH: (glancing at Woodrot with a mischievous smile) "I think I hear it approaching!"\par
WOODROT: "Bwahaha!" (sack sobbing)\par
JUDITH: "Rest Etherite, you are free to release the vision. Thank you, little one." (smile)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Metal Elephant - (Tank)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "A great behemoth rumbles across a plain at night. The ground shakes, do you feel it?"\par
WOODROT: "I wish you'd stop telling me all this."\par
JUDITH: "It moves, unstoppable - turning its mighty trunk in defiance of all enemies. Fearsome, indeed." (curious/concerned)\par
JUDITH: "I have seen enough." (plain)\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Angry Armored Bat - (Fighter Jet)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: (loud) "Argh, that sound!" (sack, alert)\par
JUDITH: "A terrible metal bat screams across the night sky, hunting larger prey than moths and nightcrawlers I would imagine."\par
WOODROT: "*whimper* This just gets worse!" (sack tremble)\par
JUDITH: "Hold still Woodrot, the vision is almost passed. There, it glimmers its last." (grave)\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Blobs' Performing Slave - (Jet Skier)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Goodness, a human! He must have been taken captive by the orange blob-people who rule this realm. Stay quiet Woodrot, we may be in some danger!"\par
WOODROT: "Mmph!" (sack, curious)\par
JUDITH: "Yes, watch how he cavorts on the ocean, whooping and hollering for the blob overlords' amusement!"\par
JUDITH: "I fear there is nothing we can do for him... Cease vision! This is too ghastly to watch." (serious)\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Confusing Contraption - (Dirt Bike)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "More pointless contraptions! It seems this otherworld is obsessed with them, they're a result of the orange, blob-people's lack of -magical- prowess, no doubt."\par
JUDITH: (thought) "How do they reach the pedals?!..."\par
JUDITH: "Best not to dwell on such things."\par
\pard\par
\par
(6) Colossal Carriage - (F-Train) - Our first multiple of 15s (30x30) There's a high chance of a Pox attack on at least one of the glyphlets.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "What's all the hubbub?" (sack, plain)\par
JUDITH: "There is something significant about this one, something... *Gasp!* My... It is cold to the touch! This is no mere gathering of light."\par
JUDITH: "Somehow an actual object has passed through from the otherworld!"\par
JUDITH: "I wouldn't have believed this were possible, but by forcing every vision onto this one place the Gremlin has breached the wall between worlds!"\par
JUDITH: (inquisitive) "It is a carriage of some kind, how curious, it is adorned with all manner of foreboding, colorful markings and magical sigils..."\par
JUDITH: "...and now it FILLS the tunnel ahead." (serious)\par
\pard\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Now, as the path ahead is blocked, Judith and Woodrot have no choice but to board the F-Train.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Yes, six more Glyphs fall to our wand, six more vision-bringers are freed and still we elude the blobs. "\par
JUDITH: "But it seems that in our haste, we have blocked the only path to the Gremlin. I see no way around this carriage. Unless..."\par
WOODROT: "Wait wait wait! Don't tell me we're going anywhere near anything that came from that crazy place!"\par
JUDITH: "No other path is open to us, we must venture inside the carriage, and into the truly unknown."\par
WOODROT: "Oh I don't like this - I don't like this at all! ... *sob*" (sack, sobbing)\par
WOODROT: "...hey, what's in my pocket?" (sack, curious)\par
WOODROT: "No way, I'd forgotten all about this: a flask of Everberry Special Acorn Reserve 872!" (sack, alert)\par
WOODROT: "Oh baby! Things are finally looking up for ol' Woodrot. Come to papa!*glug glug glug*"\par
JUDITH: "Hush  now! I'm stepping inside...though, it appears to be quite empty in here." \par
JUDITH: (loud) "The doors, they close behind us!..."\par
WOODROT: "(musical note) La-LA-la-la! (musical note)"\par
JUDITH: (wobbly bubble) "We are moving!!!!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf3\ul\b Location: Wonders\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Riding the train, they glide by vision-puzzles of some of Earth's most famous landmarks (tighter time limits may be a good idea). Location window shows part of the train interior.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Faster and faster still!" (surprise)\par
JUDITH: "Oh, what breathtaking speed, what bone-jarring motion - how the tunnel walls flash and thunder past the windows!" (awe)\par
WOODROT: "*BURP!* Ish a pidy I can't see id, i- id sounds exschiting!"\par
JUDITH: "We fly through the Hall, under the mountains - I would say the Gremlin had erringly left us an advantage, but I fancy at any moment we may crash into something!"\par
WOODROT: "Hee-hee-heeee! WE ALL GONNA DIE! *hic!*"\par
SLEEPING MAN: "*Snore*"\par
JUDITH: "Oh my goodness, another human?! Sir! Sir, excuse me!"\par
RAGGED MAN: "Huh? - Are you talking to me, lady? I'm just trying to get some sleep."\par
JUDITH: "Are you the owner of this vast and stately carriage?"\par
RAGGED MAN: "What? Do... do you think that's funny - please, leave me alone, I'm just -sleeping- until Grand Central."\par
WOODROT: "La-la-LA-la-LA! *hic!*"\par
JUDITH: "I would only beg a question or two?"\par
RAGGED MAN: "Look, you got to be -careful-! The subway in the middle of the night is no place for ... for... a glowing lady and her singing, floating bag." (concerned for Judith)\par
RAGGED MAN: "Wh-whoa! What is this?!" (confused)\par
JUDITH: "More Glyphs! They're coming, I can sense it from vibrations in the wand!"\par
RAGGED MAN: "Okay, alright! Sure, I-I have eaten McNuggets off the pavement AND worse, but I've never -taken- anything in my life! Now this?" (confused, hand in straggly hair)\par
RAGGED MAN: (loud) "This is messed up. This is totally Kutcher!"\par
JUDITH: "You may want to sit down.. uh?"\par
RAGGED MAN: "Mitchell..."\par
JUDITH: "Mitchell, I'll need some room here. And a fast wand hand!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Cheops Pyramid at night\par
\par
\pard\li1136 MITCHELL: "O-outside the window... are those the pyramids? That's Cheops at Giza! I remember it from geography class..."\par
JUDITH: "Those monuments, they are home to some of your mightiest Kings, Mitchell of the otherworld?"\par
MITCHELL: "Well, yeah... Something like that..."\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Big Ben and the Houses of Parliament\par
\par
\pard\li1136 MITCHELL: "Aw, this is a head trip! London?"\par
JUDITH: "Those buildings are almost familiar - there is a tall clock much like that in Thaumhaven."\par
MITCHELL: " 'Thaumhaven'? Okay..."\par
WOODROT: "*hic!* (musical note) One, two, three o'clock, four o'clock *BURP!* (musical note)"\par
MITCHELL: "Lady, what's in your bag?"\par
JUDITH: "Uh, well..."\par
MITCHELL: "I probably don't want to know, right?"\par
JUDITH: " 'Right.' " (smile)\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) The Taj Mahal\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "A vision of a great, white palace. I am -confused-, this is a work of inspiration and beauty. How did your orange blob overlords achieve such a thing?"\par
MITCHELL: "Blob overlords... -You're- confused?!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Tokyo Tower\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "*BURP!* Oooh, bumpy-y-y-y. Hee-hee! *BU-URP!*"\par
MITCHELL: "Damn, would you look at that... I always wanted to see Japan, Alyssa and I always said..."\par
JUDITH: "What?"\par
MITCHELL: "Nevermind. It's none of your business. I mean - , sorry."\par
MITCHELL: "It's not something I want to talk about."\par
JUDITH: "I know this Mitchell, Fate has a mind to bring us to the ones we love. If not in this world, then in another."\par
JUDITH: "Such things are woven into the fabric of the universe - we are never further from happiness than when we doubt that."\par
MITCHELL: "... Whatever you say, Lady."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Mount Rushmore - a 48x48 puzzle\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "*Gasp*! Rock Giants, or - or are they Gnome Kings?!"\par
MITCHELL: "No that's, I can't believe I'm doing this - that's Washington, Roosevelt , Lincoln and Jefferson."\par
MITCHELL: " '\f2 The ideals of these presidents laid a foundation for our nation as solid as the rock from which their figures are carved.' "\par
MITCHELL: "Every dream has its rough edges though, heh. *cough cough*"\par
JUDITH: "..." (quizzical)\par
\pard\f0\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 With these puzzles finally solved, Judith and Woodrot disembark. \par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 MITCHELL: "Hey, the train's slowin' down, what, did we finally make it to G.C.?"\par
JUDITH: "The power that brought you here is waning, I believe you will be returned to your natural place soon. It is time for me to leave."\par
JUDITH: "Here, I must make reparations for travelling in your carriage. I am sorry, this is all that I have to hand."\par
MITCHELL: (holding the diamond prism) "Now I know for sure I'm still asleep, because -this- looks like..."\par
JUDITH: "Diamond, it is quite valuable where I come from - perhaps it may be of worth to you, also."\par
JUDITH: "Come Woodrot!"\par
WOODROT: "Wheresh, where we goink now? *hic*"\par
JUDITH: "Fare well, Mitchell of the otherworld."\par
MITCHELL: "...*swallow*... yeah. C'ya."\par
JUDITH: "Away vision, return to your rightful place!"\par
JUDITH: (commanding) "AWAY!" (loud)\par
JUDITH: "..."\par
JUDITH: "Good."\par
JUDITH: "You know Woodrot, with fine young humans like that - the blobs don't stand a chance."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf3\ul\b Location: Future Signs\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Nearing the end of the nebulous Hall.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "We have travelled far. And as the hold of the Gremlin's work is loosened, so the intersecting world begins to separate from ours."\par
JUDITH: "The visions will become more distant, I imagine - until we have sealed the breach completely."\par
WOODROT: "*hic!* *mumble* *Burp!* Awwwww, stomach."\par
JUDITH: "Yes, quite. Let's finish this."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Box of Wonders - (GameCube)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "A tiny, purple box containing incredible power. Mysterious heroes reside inside it."\par
JUDITH: "Worlds within worlds..."\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Heaven's Arrow - (Space Shuttle taking off at night)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "An incredible craft climbs into the sky on a shaft of its own light. Though I do not fully comprehend it, yet, it fills my heart with joy..."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) The Moon Throne - (Lunar Rover & view of Earth from the Moon)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "My! A throne resting in the tranquility of the surface of the moon."\par
JUDITH: "And there beyond it, a vision of the whole of the otherworld. How small it looks now, how fragile. How... precious."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Lonely Machine - (Voyager I - the most distant, man-made object)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Last of all, of course, another vision of the otherworld's fondness for contraptions."\par
JUDITH: "This one sails an endless ocean, beyond the horizon - beyond the sky, beyond all reach."\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Naturally it'd be nice if people play these particular puzzles in order of distance, but it's not a problem. To those that don't it'll just seem like a bunch of space stuff.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "And we are free."\par
JUDITH: "Woodrot, the Glyphs are ALL gone! It is once again, -my- Hall of Visions. You may come out if you wish."\par
WOODROT: "Ummm. Ackshully, something bad hash happened in here. Verrry bad. I think I'll jusht shtay in here until we get outshide..."\par
JUDITH: "-Ah-... very well." (quizzical)\par
\par
\pard\par
\cf3\ul\b Location: The Vision\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 Judith receives a mysterious glimpse of events to come. \cf4 "Next week on Heroooo Glyphix!" ;p\cf0\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136\cf2 JUDITH: "We are nearing the end of my subterranean realm. Not far from here there is a concealed exit in the mountains where we may... what?"\par
WOODROT: "Hmm?" (sack curious)\par
JUDITH: "The power of the renewed Hall calls to me, like the rush of the incoming tide. My senses reawaken - the air is heavy with intent. Something strong calls out. " (vitalised)\par
JUDITH: "A powerful visio-aaAAARGH!" (pain)\par
WOODROT: "Judith?!" (sack alert)\par
\par
\pard\cf3\ul\b Location: The Vision \ulnone (II)\cf0\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 The portrait window changes to a swirl of images from future journeys.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136\cf2 JUDITH: (face illuminated in red) "From I, the wand passes to another, clad in red. Red of anger, revenge, of flames."\par
JUDITH: (eyes closed, white illumination) "Fire, Smoke, Wind, LIGHTNING - the wand follows a trail of tragedy, sacrifice, love, victory, defeat. Two fall, only one will rise again."\par
JUDITH: (red again, loud) "FLAMES!"\par
JUDITH: (purple, dark dashes of energy, eyes open again) "Heroes clash with darkness, the dead whisper, new alliances shall form, old magics are renewed, older Evils resurface..."\par
JUDITH: (purple again) "Destruction and rebirth! This is the path!"\par
JUDITH: (white, eyes closed) "..this is the path ...and we cannot turn from it..."\cf0\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf3\ul\b Location: Wizlab Matthius\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 We cut forward to some time after Judith and Woodrot have emerged in Jomon province, this particular location transition is marked by a longer musical cue than usual. The location window shows a tiny mountain top hut, surrouned by trees, under a very blue sky.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Are you feeling yourself again?"\par
WOODROT: (walking along) "Are -you-? I didn't think you were ever going to snap out of that 'crazy-eyed, mime show' you had going, back there."\par
WOODROT: "What was all that junk about falling and sacrifices?" (suspicious)\par
JUDITH: "There are many, great challenges ahead, I think glimpses of them had been building like meltwater behind a dam - once the Hall was restored that dam had to break."\par
JUDITH: "This wand still has far to travel..." (portrait window looking down at wand in her hand)\par
WOODROT: "*siiigh* Yeah alright. And how about us - are we there yet?"\par
JUDITH: "Well, we would have reached our destination some hours ago if -you- hadn't been in so tender a state...." (friendly disapproval)\par
WOODROT: "*cough* 872. It was a bloody good year for Acorns, but my head aches like a cart driver's butt."\par
JUDITH: "Woodrot, we have achieved much together and I am not immune from the strains of the quest either, but we cannot afford to rest any longer."\par
JUDITH: "You are not at journey's end quite yet." (plain)\par
JUDITH: "There, just ahead: the humble mountain home of Matthius Magamura." (interest)\par
WOODROT: "Pox streaked through here alright, but he's long gone. Man, doesn't he ever get tired? Stop for a cup of coffee and a bathroom break?!"\par
JUDITH: "It is quiet as the grave... but surely, Lord Matthius would not fall afoul of so unworthy an opponent?"\par
JUDITH: (surprise) "No..."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Bonsai Magus Tree\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "This small tree is an important thing indeed. A symbol of the bond of friendship between Howard, Skimlet and Matthius - Earth, Water and Fire heroes who fight as one."\par
JUDITH: "There is a natural order to the Elements, one that has oftentimes set their followers apart. Fire scorches Earth, Water bests Fire... but -together-, these three have found strength enough to overcome any foe."\par
WOODROT: "Well, let's hope this one's the charm that stops Pox, eh? Because I don't see myself chasing that fuzzy git all the way to the North pole."\par
JUDITH: "No..." (far away look)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Gem - Matthius' gem of power\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Here, if we needed evidence that Lord Matthius is not himself, then this is it."\par
JUDITH: "His magical focus, this gemstone of a power - a splinter of the Fire Elemental Heart itself! - lies on the floor like a discarded toy..."\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Water stone\par
\par
\pard\li1136 JUDITH: "Fire magic may sharpen a blade enough to cut through steel - yet, he prefers to use this simple stone."\par
JUDITH: "He is a man of tradition and of honor, Woodrot. You would do well to remember that when we meet."\par
WOODROT: (quiet) "...sounds like plain stubborness to me..." (quizzical)\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Ignis - Fire Salamander\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WOODROT: "...erm, I think you just set this guy's pet newt on fire." (blank)\par
JUDITH: "T'is a Fire Salamander, Wood Sprite, they are supposed to do that."\par
WOODROT: "Are you sure?"\par
JUDITH: "*ahem* Fairly, yes."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Matthius Magamura - a fast paced Pox battle with many single square attacks to the grid, leads to the freeing of Matthius.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GLYPH: Hangs in mid-air (musical note)\par
GLYPH: Shatters, revealing Matthius turning, swinging sword "*shatter*"\par
MATTHIUS: "Hah!..." (sword swings through the empty air with incredible poise)\par
MATTHIUS: Close-up of eyes, looking to one side "......"\par
SILHOUETTE: Woodrot standing in silhouette off to one side "!"\par
MATTHIUS: (loud, sword raised) "Rrrrr... YOISH!"\par
WOODROT: "AIEEEEEEeeeeee!" (looking up, screaming like a girl)\par
JUDITH: (Massive burst of light) "*flash!* \cf2 Stay thy hand, Lord Magamura!"\par
MATTHIUS: (squinting in the glare, still holding the sword) "..."\par
JUDITH: "Our foe has already left." (melancholic)\par
MATTHIUS: (serious) "...I understand, my blow was timed several hours too late. My lady, you have undone the curse wrought on me. I am in your debt."\par
JUDITH: "The responsibility I am about to pass on to you is repayment enough I fear." (smile) \par
MATTHIUS: "Methusaleh's wand. Then I was right." (holding Vanglorian, close-up) \par
MATTHIUS: "A wretched Pox gremlin is loose. To have been ambushed by such a flea!... it is unbefitting." (angry)\par
WOODROT: "Bah! Looks like your reactions are going, as well as your eyesight, Mr. 'Sashimi'!" (Woodrot unsteady)\par
MATTHIUS: "Even monkeys fall from trees." (glance)\par
WOODROT: "A monkey, with that straggly beard? Maybe a goa..."\par
MATTHIUS: (evil fixed stare) "..."\par
JUDITH: "Indeed, this is -Edizon's- work. The gremlin is not some random apparition."\par
JUDITH: "It is his eager servant, summoned Northward to free him. It has left havoc in its wake that has needed to be remedied all of the leagues back from Thaumhaven."\par
MATTHIUS: "Young Skimlet has been proving himself again?" (amused)\par
JUDITH: "If it were not for his early actions, we would both forever be cold pebbles, neither alive nor dead."\par
JUDITH: (white light illumination, eyes closed) "Wind stirs the ripples. I foresee he will be a great power one day..."\par
JUDITH: (wobbly bubble) "Oh, the visions are so insistent, squabbling crows! - Omens of the road travelled and the myriad forks ahead. -It is too much!-"\par
MATTHIUS: "Lady Judith, are you alright? Here, you should rest a while."\par
JUDITH: (wobbly bubble) "No... No. I am quite fine." (smile)\par
JUDITH: (normal bubble) "By Skimlet's efforts the quest was passed to Howard the Green from whom this wand was passed to me."\par
JUDITH: "Now I ask that you continue chase, Methusaleh's device has drained me and I tire of the overworld. I- I must return to my Hall of lights." (tired)\par
MATTHIUS: "Very well, leave safe in the knowledge that the chase will soon be over." (conviction)\par
MATTHIUS: "It is said 'Do not count tanuki skins before they have been caught', but I swear that it goes no further than this!" (conviction)\par
MATTHIUS:  "And if even one wasabi basket in Akuyoshida has been overturned, there will be -hell- to pay." (dangerous)\par
JUDITH: "Farewell, brave one."\par
MATTHIUS: "*ahem* My lady? You have forgotten your goblin." (quizzical)\par
WOODROT: "Who are you calling a goblin, slap-head?" (angry)\par
JUDITH: "Ah, yes I have not told you yet have I? It is so hard to focus, is this before or after the flames?" (tired)\par
JUDITH: "No - no. Of course. It is the dawn of the second day, and Lord Matthius is only about to set out." (plain)\par
MATTHIUS: "My lady?"\par
JUDITH: "This is Woodrot. Only he can lead you to the Gremlin, Pox."\par
WOODROT: "You hear that? I'm important - like, don't mess with me!" (beaming and gesturing)\par
MATTHIUS: (sceptical glance) "I suppose even a fool has one talent."\cf0\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
Kick back to the Game Select screen, activate pyrotechnics and unlock 'The Way of Matthius'!\par
\par
\par
\cf3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0\par
\cf5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0 end~of~Journey\cf5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0\par
\cf3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\cf0\par
\par
\par
\b Appendix Notes\b0 :\par
\par
Hall of Visions: \cf6 A vast underground tunnel or hall, that passes under the mountain range between Thaumhaven and Jomon. The Hall of Visions is home to a race of creatures that respond to Light Elemental wizards with glimpses of the past, alternate present and future of this and other worlds. \par
\par
\cf2 Etherites: \cf6 Insubstantial living lights that can commune across space and time, they are spontaneous lifeforms, essels connected to the Light Elemental Heart.\cf7\par
}
 