{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\lang2057\ul\b\f0\fs22 Hero Glyphix - Journey 6\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\ulnone "Shadow Steppes" - \b0 Geneva's Journey\par
\par
Locations: 7\par
Puzzles: 27 in 155 parts\par
\par
Character:  Geneva Creaux\par
\par
Theme:  Dark-Spooky\par
\par
Geneva:  A darkly beautiful but very troubled young Smoke Elementalist. Geneva is a true half-blood, a rare pure combination of a human and \i Shadowform \i0 - a primeval, supernatural creature of awesome strength and fury. She is weak by day, and yet by night can barely control the immense powers that she was born with. \par
\par
She dresses in a tight, elegant black dress underneath a long tattered black cloak, and wears a silver dragon torc (metal band) around her neck to serve as the focus of her Smoke magic.\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Forest Edge - Sunset\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\cf3 This Journey begins \cf0 as Geneva leaves her home on the healthy forest front of Ghorewood, it is a rich sunset. \par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Mmm, it's a warm evening."\par
GENEVA: "Breathing the faint sweetness of wild flowers lingering in the air, you can almost picture what it was like here a century ago..."\par
GENEVA: "...before the rot set in. It's hard to imagine that Netherweir of the past, countless leagues of lush forest, families and farmsteads stretching over the horizon."\par
GENEVA: "But now-"\par
\par
\pard\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Forest Edge - Dusk\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360 Sunset turns to blues and purples of dusk in the location window, the portrait colors change to match.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "*shiver* - The sun sets so quickly here. And not many walk these dying paths."\par
UNDERGROWTH: "*rustle*"\par
GENEVA: "Huh?" (looking vulnerable)\par
GENEVA: "Hey... ... Is someone there? ......" (looking around uncertainly)\par
MIRKBOAR (jumps out) : "*STOMP!!!*  Rrrrrr! "\par
MIRKBOAR: "*SNORT! SNORT!*"\par
GENEVA: (dramatically revealing her terrifying Shadowform guise, loud) "HAAAAAAARRRRGGHHSSHHHH!"\par
MIRKBOAR: (eyes bulging with terror, turned white & whimpering) "*Squeak!*"\par
UNDERGROWTH: (portrait shows its back legs and tail disappearing into the undergrowth) "*Squeeeeeeeeal!*"\par
GENEVA: (mostly back to human, chuckling, red eyes) "Hehe-heh."\par
GENEVA: "I thought the wild things here had learned not to try that with me. The night IS my time."\par
GENEVA'S ROBES: (noise lines emanate from a pocket inside her robe) "*creeeeak* ... As it is yours...."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "...Oracle of Whispers." (in the palm of her hand, eyes half open)\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Was I sleepin' in agaiyn? Bon nuit, Mistrezz Geneva." (fully awake)\par
GENEVA: "Ahh, the night doesn't begin until it's greeted by your rich Creole tones, Doc. Any interesting dreams?"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Plenty as alwayz cher', but none I'd dare tell you." (wink)\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "I see we're trippin' out once mo. Are you fixin' to pick up our search where we left off?"\par
GENEVA: "No. The -Crux-... will have to wait, for tonight we have a new quarry A new quest." (eyes narrowed)\par
GENEVA: "A Pox Gremlin passed through here not long ago, the familiar of an evil wizard who has his hopes set on staging a jail break. His own."\par
GENEVA: "It's our job to stop that from happening. I need you to tell me whatever you can."\par
ORACLE  OF WHISPERS: "Anythin' for you. You got me in da palm of your hand as alwayz. And all things -whispered- stop at my ears, just let me listen..."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: ".... Yeaaa, not an hour ago, da creature stood near dis spot. He cried out to his Master ...."\par
GENEVA: "Keep it coming." (determined smile)\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "And his Master replies! He whispers -inside- da creature's head from his prison cell, always guiding its hand. Always goading, urging it to him."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "  'Fool! How could you allow yourself to be struck like this?' -  Oh, da Master's fumin' angry! Creature got hoiyt, wound'd by the fiyo wizard." \par
GENEVA: (joy) "Yes! Way to go Red!!! I should have known you'd slow him down for me." \par
GENEVA: "Any sense of which way he's headed?"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Da Gremlin firyst seeks to replenish itself, then he gon' hurry fo his picayune boss, fast as his legs'll take him."\par
GENEVA: "He's looking to feed? Well this path leads Northeast, and I can't see him turning back towards Jomon..."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "I 'gree, Mistrezz. Then dis new hunt is afoot?" (wide smile)\par
GENEVA: "Through Ghorewood and deeper into Nethweir we go. Keep your ears finely tuned."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "If an ant trips over his path I'll hear its tiny cursin'." (wide smile)\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Trapper's Shack\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360 The path leads Geneva and the Oracle near to the home of a fur-trapper.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 ORACLE HELD BY GENEVA (wide shot showing them both, Oracle's mouth open): "Gremlin monkeyed around here a while. Dat's da place."\par
GENEVA: "And who do we have hiding out here? A lone, black hut behind a screen of Lyche trees, down by a dark, -stinking- lake."\par
GENEVA: "Few people live in Ghorewood beyond the border - and those that do usually have good reason to be left alone..."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "  "Treadsy paw and springsy trap\par
\tab\tab\tab             Snapsy bones and breaksy back\par
\tab\tab\tab             Wriggle your body with vigor and vim\tab\tab\tab             \par
\tab\tab\tab             I'll chop your limbs from limb from limb!"  "\par
\par
GENEVA: "What is -that-?!"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Poetry whisper'd every night here under some real unpleasant breath. Somebody'z gruesome idea of a woiyk song."\par
GENEVA: (knowing smile) "And when you say something is gruesome, you know it's the truth."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: (awkward attempt at a grin) "*creeeak* Ain't it lucky I got a sparkling pers'nality, unlike somebody I could mention."\par
GENEVA: (smiling, banter) "Hey, everyone has two sides to their personality. Mine are just more ... pronounced."\par
GENEVA: "You think we're on the right track?"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "I could be wrong, G."\par
GENEVA: "You're never wrong."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: (grin) "Dat's a fair point." \par
GENEVA: "... there look, just inside. Proof!"\par
\tab\tab\tab           \par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Long knife & Axe\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Somebody likes to make with the chopping and the slicing. Tools of the trade. And trades don't get much uglier than this..."\par
ORACLE: "Fo sho." (evil look)\par
GENEVA: (angry) "What business does a trapper have on the dead frontier, of all places?"\par
GENEVA: "There are few creatures brave enough to eke out an existence here, do they deserve to suffer -this- too?"\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) A caged Remett\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Awww! A Steppe Fox - you handsome guy... you don't belong in this cage."\par
GENEVA: (smiling) "*Click* ... Ha! There, hey don't be scared just... Go on, get!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Metal trap\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Ugh, look at this savage old set of jaws. Stained with rust and blood."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "I's tainted with more than dat. There's a great many whisper'd pleas bound to dis trap, animal voices clingin' to life."\par
GENEVA: (angry hint of the shadowform)  "......"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "G.? You gotta try ta keep hold of your..."\par
GENEVA: (full Shadowform) "hhhHYAARRGH!"\par
TRAP: (shatters with great force) "*.*.*SMASH!*.*.*"\par
GENEVA: (human again, disturbingly emotionless) "There."\par
GENEVA: (eyebrows raised, smile) "Now it won't do any more harm."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Roughly hewn pelt\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "A winter Remett pelt. There are a lot of them stashed in here, dozens, they'll fetch a high price no doubt." \par
GENEVA: "But y'know, to me they somewhat lose their beauty after they've been hacked from their owners. ...Why is the Gremlin hexing these things?"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Da Master tells it to cast obstacles, he wanna slow you down. Gremlin's strugglin' ta keep this pace."\par
GENEVA: "It knows we're coming for it?"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: (smile) "Oh yeaaa."\par
GENEVA: (hard) "Good."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Caged litter of chubby squirrely-kitten things\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Look at these poor things, they're too small to have been kept for anything. 'Cept maybe someone's 'amusment'."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Dat someone stirs, upstayz..."\par
GENEVA: "All you know is cruelty, huh?... the fear in their eyes... Don't flinch, little ones. I'm letting you all go - go on."\par
GENEVA: "That's it! You'll get the hang of freedom once you've tasted it again."\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360 In these puzzles Geneva has shown a soft, emotionally sensitive side - and also a nearly uncontrollable anger born from her dark side, seen in the destruction of  the trapper's possessions. \par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Betta move yo self, quickly G. I don't hear dem snores upstayz, any mo..."\par
TRAPPER: (threatening ugly, leather faced man, matted curly black hair) "*Hach!* WHO'S there?"\par
TRAPPER: "Who are you, WRETCHED girl in my house? Intruding on my work! Letting go my pretties?!" \par
TRAPPER: (loud) "I'll teach you to-"\par
GENEVA: (shaking, wobbly bubble) "Teach? If someone is to be taught a lesson..."\par
GENEVA (Shadowform, loud) "IIT ISSS YOU!!!"\par
TRAPPER: "Agh! A Shadow-! The girl is a -Shadowform-!"\par
GENEVA: (Shadowform, intense) "THIIIS 'WORK' YOU WREAK? - IT ISSS A BLIGHHT ON AN ALREADY BLIIIGHTED LAND!"\par
GENEVA: (claws raised on an extended hand, poised to kill, eyes flaring red, loud) "WITH ONE MOTIIION OF MYYY FIST, I  . . . !"\par
TRAPPER: (contorted in fear, foam at the corner of his mouth) " Uh - uh - Uh !"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Geneva, getta grip!"\par
GENEVA: (shock, the Shadowform guise is semi-transparent as it recedes) "*gasp*"\par
GENEVA: (shock, fully human) "We're leaving, Doc..."\par
TRAPPER: (frothing with fear) "That's right! *choke* Run away, you evil m-monster. Evil!"\par
TRAPPER: (threatening loud) "EVIIIIIIIIL! ..."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Dying woods\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 We catch up with Geneva again, back on the the NE road - or rather, a faintly worn path through the dying woods. (Longer musical cue helps to signal this location transition)\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: (deep in thought) "...... "evil" ......"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Life's a bowl o' Gumbo, ain't it? Maybe you get a mouthful of crawfish, anutha time you get a mouthful of doiyt."\par
GENEVA: "*sighhh* ... I'm sorry that turned bad, Doc."\par
GENEVA: "Sometimes it's like I'm fighting against the current. There's one half of me so full of anger, and the other, the Shadowform, is burning with the power to dispense -justice-, straining to be free."\par
GENEVA: "But it's not that simple, things can get... messy. If I let them."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "You don't have to 'splain yourself to me, G. I know mo than anybody actions have cons'quences. *creak*" (smile)\par
GENEVA: (weak smile) "Heh-heh, ... 'If you ever get a body again -' "\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "- 'I'll know better than ta eavesdrop on a bad-tempered wizard with a short fuse.' " (grin)\par
GENEVA: "*giggle* You're lucky I'm the one who found you, y'know. You could be someone's hairy paperweight by now." (giggle)\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "A'right, G.! I'm just tryin' to cheer you up, let's not hoiyt anyone's feelingz." (exasperated grin)\par
GENEVA: (laughing) "Or a Night Watchman at the Jomon Temple, they wouldn't even need to buy you a uniform!"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "A'RIGHT, cher!" (exasperated grin)\par
GENEVA: "Hey... look...  I think there's someone standing on the road up ahead."\par
ORACLE: "Hol' me up."\par
DISTANT SILHOUETTE OF THE WANDERER: (quietly) "There. It's too big to be the Gremlin, you can just make out a silhouette..."\par
MURDO THE GHOST: (suddenly appears next to Geneva's face, white and pulling a face of distaste) "*Moaaaan!*"\par
GENEVA: (jumps in shock) "*GASP!*"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: (falls to the ground, lands skull first - loud) "Soc au' lait! OW!"\par
DISTANT SILHOUETTE OF THE WANDERER: (bent over, looking around) "Huh? Hello?"\par
MURDO: "Errrrgh, look at him. Reduced to scrubbing around in the dirt, the 'Wanderer'. "\par
GENEVA:  (picking up the smarting Oracle) "And who the heck are you? "Wanderer?"  "\par
WANDERER: (seen clearly now, peering back through the darkness) "Y-yes! Who's there?"\par
MURDO: "More like Weasel. Wastrel. Waste of Space. *muttered insults*"\par
GENEVA: (shoots a disapproving glance at the apparition) "..."\par
MURDO: "Don't worry he can't hear me. But YOU can... can't you missy?"\par
MURDO: (chuckling) "Hurhurhur!"\par
GENEVA: "Shut your yap, shade."\par
WANDERER: "Shade? Wh-who are you talking to? ... it's so dark." (confused)\par
ORACLE: "You're spookin' the po guy, G."\par
GENEVA: "Forgive me friend, let me step into the moonlight. I'm Geneva, Mistress of Smoke and Shadow, and it's a pleasure to meet a fellow wanderer in these lands."\par
WANDERER: "Ohh my goodness, likewise!" (relief)\par
MURDO: "Go on, ask the multicolored moron what he's doing scrambling around in the dark..."\par
GENEVA: "...It looks as if trouble has found you tonight. What brings you into this requiem of a forest?"\par
WANDERER: (smile) "*sigh* I am a free spirit, my lady... a travelling merchant.  I make this same journey between Thaumhaven and Netherweir every new moon."\par
GENEVA: "Without a cart or caravan? But that's 50 leagues or more."\par
WANDERER: "Ah, there's no better life than having the sky for your roof! And I don't fear these roads, they and I are old friends...though something very odd stalks them tonight."\par
GENEVA: "I think I know where this is going..."\par
WANDERER: "-Something- clambered from the darkness after sunset, clawing, huffing and sniffing at me! - and in a instant my light and my few belongings were gone."\par
WANDERER: (looking down) "Turned to these - rocks? - it seems."\par
GENEVA: "Our gremlin has been busy! Well, rest a while. It's magic that can be undone easily enough." (smile)\par
MURDO: "Oh yes, you must rescue my descendant's worthless junk. Bah."\par
GENEVA: (quiet) "Descendant? Look shade, I don't care what your story is or what business you think you have here. Leave or hold your tongue, or I will deal with you."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Mushroom sack\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: (eyes watering) "Whew-hoo-HOO! That's a powerful aroma! What is it you trade in?"\par
WANDERER: "Mushrooms! Fungi! The rarest truffles from the shadowed and secret depths of Netherweir, the -spiciest- in all of Magus Magna."\par
GENEVA: (thought bubble) "Spices, yes!... Red knew the Gremlin would be drawn to them, and if it's wounded then it must need them more than ever."\par
GENEVA: (speaking, concerned) "But your mushroom sack is empty, were your wares taken in the attack?"\par
WANDERER: "It's my return journey from market, my Lady, and as such I travel unladen save for a few fortunate coins weighing my pockets." (smile)\par
GENEVA: "So the creature left unsatisfied."\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: "Indeed, G. Da Gremlin's haste betrayz his fear. Without food soon, he gonna slow down like a gator in a sticky bayou." (grin)\par
GENEVA: (grin) "Then we will work -faster!-"\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
(2) Bedroll\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WANDERER: (smile) "Aha! My bedroll, I can enjoy the comfort of a soft quilt on which to sleep. I confess it's one luxury I still very much cling to."\par
GENEVA:  "Here. Is this really how you sleep, don't you have any place in the world to call home?"\par
WANDERER: "This! *inhale* All of this is my home!"\par
MURDO: "Arrgh! And he actually believes that horsepuckey too. How could the Murdo family line sink as low as this?!?"\par
MURDO: "I must be rolling in my grave."\par
GENEVA: (quiet) "'Murdo', is it? Go and haunt someone who cares."\par
WANDERER: "Is something wrong, Mistress Geneva? You're... speaking to yourself."\par
GENEVA: "Nothing to concern yourself with, friend."\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
(3) Lantern pole\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Here. It looks like you'll be able to find your destination tonight, after all."\par
WANDERER: "My lantern, and it's undamaged. Much obliged, my Lady! Haha, I only wish I had your 20/20 night vision instead."\par
WANDERER: "This pole is an awkward thing to bear in the daytime - although at night, with the base fixed snug into my backpack, I must say it lights my way more ably than any lighthouse."\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
(4) Mangled Dried mushroom bread\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Mushroom bread?... *sniff sniff* ..."\par
WANDERER: "Ah! A little worse for wear but I'm grateful for its return - good travelling rations! Keeps me on my feet."\par
GENEVA: "Isn't it a little hot for that?"\par
WANDERER: "No, not all. When Netherweir mushrooms are baked in this way they lose all their spiciness."\par
GENEVA: "Well that explains why the Gremlin didn't eat any."\par
ORACLE: "Dat it does. Got him in a real sour mood, too. Heheh!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
(5) Maps of Secret places\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WANDERER: "I've discovered many natural wonders on my travels, secret places that offer up all manner of oddities. Herbs, fruits, mushrooms - the treasures of the wild."\par
MURDO: "OH-haha! 'Treasures'."\par
WANDERER: "It's an inconsequential existence, I suppose. These maps would be worthless to most people..."\par
 MURDO: "He's got that right."\par
WANDERER: "... but they are my way of life. Some in Thaumhaven have even grown to value my visits, at least a little I think."\par
GENEVA: (awkward) "Don't feel like you have to justify yourself, Wanderer. You've truly found you own harmony, it's... something to be envied."\par
MURDO: "What are you telling him -?!.. ! Don't encourage the penniless fool, girl!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\cf3 We wrap up this location by emphasing Geneva's awkwardness with ordinary humans, and the reason for her isolation... again, matters take a turn for the worse for her.\cf0\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "*phew!* And - we - are - clear!"\par
WANDERER: "A thousand thanks for your assistance! By my estimation, wizards are not held in nearly high enough regard. This night has been most kind to me." (smile)\par
GENEVA: "I'm flattered you can say that. Besides, it's rare to get the opportunity in Ghorewood to help anybody."\par
WANDERER: "Well if you're ever in the great city, come visit my stall in the town square! I do save the rarest curios for my special customers."\par
GENEVA: (awkward) "Uhh, yes, Thaumhaven. It's a long time since I've been in such a populated... a place with so many, uh. ...I'm not really at home in crowds."\par
GENEVA: (quiet) "People tend to get hurt around me."\par
WANDERER: "Ah wait, there is something I can do for you right now. Take this. It will guide you to the mushroom beds."\par
WANDERER: "If I understand what you've said, maybe your Gremlin is headed there."\par
GENEVA: "Take one of your maps? I can't accept this..."\par
WANDERER: "It's all here in my head anyway, every secret path, every hidden nook, cranny and oubliette."\par
ORACLE: "Mos' scocious! Dis is just what we need, G."\par
GENEVA: (determined grin) "Yes, excellent. We're still in with a chance to catch him whilst he's weakened!"\par
GENEVA: (burning red eyes, and a \i glimpse \i0 of Shadowform) "We're gonna get him! He can run but hHe CaN't HIIIDE!"\par
WANDERER: (face drops) "Wha-? What's happening to you?"\par
MURDO: "Bless my bones, hurhurhur! The girl's a half-blood!"\par
GENEVA: (human again) "Oh! I... It's okay, don't be -"\par
WANDERER: (still very concerned) "My thanks, but I really must leave. Immediately! S-safe journey!"\par
GENEVA: (quiet) "...scared. Don't be scared."\par
MURDO: "Hah, look at him run. He doesn't understand you're neither one thing nor the other, eh Shadow-girl?"\par
MURDO: "A lot like my poor self. I'm not alive, but I'm not exactly dead neither."\par
GENEVA: (cross) "I'm nothing like you, Shade!"\par
MURDO: "Hurhurhurhur! Of course not, of course. Bah, I've got it worse than you, girl. I have to watch my bottom feeder of a great-grandson disgracing the family name."\par
ORACLE: "C'mon, G. Letz get goin'. You wanna catch da Gremlin, bien sur?"\par
GENEVA: (cross) "You're right, let's move."\par
\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Dank Hollow\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360 The duo make good ground, following the Wanderer's map a distance North.\par
\pard\li1136\par
GENEVA: "X marks the spot. So here we are, I guess - in a dank hollow on the very edge of Ghorewood's inner border. Any further East and we'd hit the Shadow Steppes."\par
GENEVA: "Nothing grows that way, the life has leeched from the ground. Ten years from now what's left of Ghorewood may be gone too."\par
ORACLE: "You smell dat?"\par
GENEVA: "*inhale* Spices! You're right Doc, Wanderer's mushroom beds have got to be near here, somewhere."\par
ORACLE: "Hmmmm, dey are a'right. *creak* And da Gremlin's bin here too, cher. I can recall his whispers, dey ain't long spoken."\par
GENEVA: "Grrr, then where is he? I don't see any mushrooms, and there are no instructions on the map..."\par
ORACLE: "Hooold it. Check the doiyt, G. My ears are telling me da Gremlin glyphed someting."\par
GENEVA: "...Yes! Right there, I've found one!"\par
\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Odd machine\par
\par
\pard\li1136 MURDO: "Hmmph?...What's that thing?"\par
GENEVA: "Oh NO. Why are you dogging us Murdo?"\par
MURDO: "Don't speak to your betters like that, girl. ...  bah, maybe I enjoy being able to talk to someone who can hear me for a change."\par
GENEVA: "Well go pester someone else. Just because I can hear you it doesn't mean I'm listening."\par
MURDO: "Hurhurhur, why then you clearly don't know who you're dealing with! Let me enlighten you: -I- am ... UNCTIOUS MURDO! 22nd head of Netherweir's most renowned family!"\par
MURDO: " 'De Argentii Eternum Fortis ' Forever powerful through riches! The Murdo name and motto is emblazoned on the pages of history!"\par
GENEVA: "Okay, got it. Never heard of you. -  Now Doc., what do you make of this?"\par
ORACLE: "Da Gremlin's Master ordered him to woiyk dis machine. You could try cranking da lever."\par
MURDO: (red faced, furious, loud) "Gaah!! How -dare- you ignore me. Before the damned blight our influence was felt across the world! \par
GENEVA: "There's no-one out here escaped being affected by the blight. That doesn't make you special."\par
MURDO: "Ah, but the Murdo's were SUPREME - influential and rich beyond words!!"\par
MURDO: (muttering to self) "Which makes it all the more sickening to see what has become of our only heir."\par
GENEVA: "Doc, it's working! It's a gate and lift shaft down to a underground grotto of some kind, the Wanderer must have built it for access."\par
GENEVA: "It's not very sturdy, it's certainly not pretty but... Come on, let's see if this contraption works."\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Fruiting Grotto\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\cf3 Underground, they stalk into the gloom...\cf0\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: (quiet) "Careful... slowly now, there's a sea of mushrooms down here. The Gremlin could be hiding anywhere!"\par
MURDO: "Hah! Look at this gloomy stinkhole. My dimwitted descendant has swapped our money for mould. When I think of the riches the family held..."\par
GENEVA: (quiet) "Doc, what have you got?"\par
ORACLE: "  'Feeeed, my servant. Heal, replenish yourself.' "\par
GENEVA: (quiet) "Edizon?"\par
ORACLE: "Yea, not long ago...  'Then HURRY to me, I grow IMPATIENT to be free!' "\par
GENEVA: (quiet, concerned) "I don't see the Gremlin... or any other exits..."\par
ORACLE: "*Creak!*  'Yes, SPLENDID! Come now Pox. Make haste to me! Turn your Master's shackles to stones and you will be rewarded!'  'A-HA-HAA-HAAA!'"\par
ORACLE: "We was close G., but he's been and gon. We missed him by a hair." \par
GENEVA: (frustrated) "Oh NO! ...  This quest has been nothing but bad news."\par
GENEVA: "*sigh* We're wasting our time here... and who knows which way he's headed?"\par
GENEVA: "If he's back to full speed we'll need to depend on your ears more than ever - if we're going to even hope that our luck will change."\par
ORACLE: "Sho 'nuff." (grin)\par
GENEVA: "But I see there's work to do here first, maybe I can take out my frustration on these glyphs."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Fungoid \par
\par
\pard\li1136 FUNGOID: "*Squish!* *squish* *Squish!*"\par
GENEVA: "It's a Fungoid! Hold your breath, Doc."\par
GENEVA: "-FUMO-" (Geneva touches the dragon torc around her neck with her left hand, expels smoke from her right)\par
FUNGOID: "Squiiiiiiiiiiiiissssshhhhhh....*" (in a haze of smoke, now in grey tones)\par
GENEVA: "Go to sleep, squishy."\par
ORACLE: "Nice shooting, G." (grin)\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Mega-Fungoid!\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Whoa, a Fungoid Queen! I've never even seen one of these giants in the flesh before!!!"\par
MEGA-FUNGOID: "Brbrbrbrgle! *SQUISH!* "\par
ORACLE: "That ting packing some bad gris-gris! Quickly, cher. Before we swimmin in spores!"\par
GENEVA: "-EX UMBRA-!" (a flash of darkness extends from Geneva's outstretched fist)\par
MEGA-FUNGOID: " ... " (frozen, and in partial negative, surrounded by darkness)\par
GENEVA: "Whew - There, she'll be out of action for  a while."\par
\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Wanderer's tools\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "These are the Wanderer's tools for digging and harvesting the mushrooms. Well, it makes sense he wouldn't carry them around with him."\par
ORACLE: "He owes you big, G."\par
GENEVA: (troubled) "... I don't think people can be in debt to monsters."\par
ORACLE: "Cher, you ain't no-"\par
GENEVA: "Let's just finish up here as fast as we can, okay?"\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Wanderer's money cache\par
\par
\pard\li1136 MURDO: "What's this?... muh... money?"\par
GENEVA: (smile) "Ha! A great deal of money. Well Unctious - It appears that your great-grandson has embraced this simple travelling life with no regrets." \par
GENEVA: "He could afford a very different one if he wanted."\par
MURDO: (flummoxed, quiet) "Buh?... rich but,... if he has all that... how could he want to...?"\par
MURDO: "Argh!!! This just shows him to be even more of an IMBECILE!!!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360 Geneva prepares to leave the grotto, unaware that Murdo is about to let slip a valuable secret.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "We're done here, let's find our way back topside."\par
MURDO: "That.. feeble-minded bohemian! It beggars belief he would actually -choose- this pathetic existence."\par
MURDO: "When I think about everything he's turned his back on, the proud Murdo lineage, the family's seat of power - Murdo Mansion ..."\par
GENEVA: (exasperated) "Will you stop your moaning, you foul old spirit."\par
MURDO: (quiet) "Lords and Noblemen trembled in our Mighty shadow. We had so much! We -still- have so much, so many fineries and treasures taken to the grave... *mutter*  *mutter*"\par
GENEVA: "Wait, what's that you're muttering?"\par
MURDO: "Hrm?"\par
GENEVA: "Oracle, did he just say what I thought he did?"\par
ORACLE: " '...so many fineries and treasures taken to the grave. The Maroc pearl, Glenheim's bejewled battle armor, vases from the age of Vhadesh. And most valued of all...' "\par
ORACLE: (suddenly eyes open wide for the first time, and blazing yellow, loud) "THE CRUX! HE KNOWS OF THE CRUX!"\par
ORACLE: " 'We even held the fabled Gran Crux amongst the family treasures.' "\par
GENEVA: (intense shock, hand to face) "*Gasp* Can it be true?!"\par
MURDO: (shocked too) "Wh-what? What are you talking about, girl?... I never said anything of the sort."\par
GENEVA: "-I- have searched for 8 long years for this. Night after night scouring the land for whispers of its resting place."\par
GENEVA: "Endlessly I have hunted it - the instrument of my salvation, the dark junction, the artifact of power that can -unite my blood-, the Crux! And you have it!"\par
MURDO: "Eh...!?! No no no, ... you must have misheard-"\par
GENEVA: (loud) "With the Gran Crux in my possession my powers would no longer be bound to the night - I would no longer be called monster, mockery, a 'half-breed' - I will be whole!"\par
GENEVA: "Only the Crux has the sorcery to make me COMPLETE. And perhaps to become more powerful than any human or even pure Shadowform has ever been!" \cf4\b (portrait of future Geneva, shadow Queen)\cf0\b0\par
MURDO: "Stop it! I - I didn't say a word!"\par
GENEVA: "Tell me!"\par
MURDO: "Th-that withered head has beetles in its ears. I've never even heard of that thing!..."\par
GENEVA: (loud) "Not a thing, a prize. My prize! The Crux is my deliverance, my one goal, it is the beat in my heart, my reason to breathe - now TELL ME WHAT YOU KNOW!" (eyes absolutely blazing a fiery red)\par
MURDO: (panicking) "No, you've... Yaaargh!! - You'll never get your hands on it!"\par
MURDO: "*Spoink!*" (portrait window shows Murdo vanishing)\par
ORACLE: "Gon'."\par
GENEVA: "Vanished, curse him!!!"\par
GENEVA: "*gasp* Look at me, I'm... shaking like a leaf."\par
ORACLE: "I-i-i-i  kn-o-o-ow-w-w!"\par
GENEVA: (giddy) "At last ...Doc. At long last, after all these nights, we KNOW where the Gran Crux is! Murdo Mansion!!!"\par
ORACLE: "Che-e-r... I-i-'m glad forrr you."\par
ORACLE: "...B-but where i-is dis Murdo Mansion?"\par
GENEVA: (blank) " . . . "\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Steppes\par
\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
We cut to a different location to introduce Periwynkle and Limpitt, two ghosts in a fluster.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 LIMPITT: "I don't believe this! It came out of nowhere, poor Welk."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "W-what are we going to do?"\par
LIMPITT: "The look on his fat face when that energy bolt hit him. BAM! Right between the eyes!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "We have to go for help!"\par
LIMPITT: "Help? And who's going to help us?!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Well we have to do -something-! We can't just leave him like that!"\par
LIMPITT: "I don't know... Ack, there's a human coming! HIDE!"\par
GENEVA & ORACLE: (distant shot, quiet, Geneva talking) "...I always knew it wasn't a faerie tale, that it was out there, somewhere."\par
GENEVA: (normal head and shoulders portrait) "I never stopped believing. And now we can give that place a name: Murdo Mansion... Murdo Mansion."\par
ORACLE: "It don't ring a bell, G."\par
PERIWYNKLE: (quiet) "Look, it's the Divided One! Maybe -"\par
LIMPITT: (quiet, admonishing) "Keep your voice down, she'll -hear us!"\par
GENEVA: "Well, this is where our final hunt begins, where the forest line succumbs to the blighted, lifeless earth. The Shadow Steppes."\par
GENEVA: "How many times have we travelled forth from here, Doc.?"\par
ORACLE: "Too many to recall, mon cher."\par
GENEVA: "And we've never heard mention of this Mansion before, but then the Steppes are as vast as a sea and dotted with islands of ruins from all the ages of the world."\par
GENEVA: (narrowed eyes) "It's 20 leagues across and not one living thing is out there, - except for the black butterflies. I've always found that a little unsettling."\par
GENEVA: "Even so... it ends tonight,  I can feel it. Are you with me?"\par
ORACLE: "You better believe I am. You know how my powers woiyk, I'm gon' strain my ears to catch any whispers ever been said about da Murdos."\par
ORACLE: "Tho' it ain't gon' be easy. Twenty five generations they lived here? Whoo, dat's gon' keep me busy."\par
GENEVA: "Work your magic - and I'll keep us moving. Come on."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Hey! Human!"\par
LIMPITT: "WHAT ARE YOU DOING!?! Get back here, Periwynkle she could be dangerous!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "No Limpitt, someone has to do something!"\par
GENEVA: "Huh?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Please... please miss. Can you help us?"\par
GENEVA: "Help you, ghost? With what?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: (holding up a glowing glyph) "This... My friend... "\par
GENEVA: "Ohh... a glyph... Edizon's gremlin. Yes, I can help. And then maybe -you can help me-."\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Welk the fat ghost\par
\par
\pard\li1136 WELK: "Woop! What'sthematterwhat'sgoingon?!"\par
WELK: "Uh-huh-huh! I thought I was a goner there. Hey Peri, Limpitt, did ya see that?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Welk! You're back in the land of the dead!"\par
LIMPITT: "Yeah, welcome back you schmuck."\par
WELK: "Trippy! There was a weird FLASH of light over... there, and now I'm floating way over here. Ooh la la, and where did this hottie come from?"\par
WELK: "Now there's a sight that makes me miss my lower half. Curves in all the right places, you know what I mean, guys!"\par
GENEVA: (tight smile) "I can hear you, you know."\par
WELK: (blushing furiously) "*choke* Oh , I didn't mean to say you're...not that you don't have... uhhh?...!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Fair lady sorceress, how can I thank you for freeing my friend from that monster's spell?"\par
GENEVA: "Actually I hope that you can help me, ghost..."\par
WELK: (grin) "You SAVED me, lady? Aw gee! How come you can see us?"\par
LIMPITT: "She's the Divided One, lunkhead. You know, the half-human that's always searching the land for some terrible artifact of power? I can't believe you're even talking to her!"\par
GENEVA: "I have been able to see and hear the dead ever since I was born. Quite an experience for a little girl. It's the Shadowform in me."\par
WELK: "Shadowform? Like a -living- spirit? Ancient as the world itself?!"\par
WELK: "Far out! Well, my name's Welk, this is Periwynkle and that sourpuss there is Limpitt. Thanks a heap for the save."\par
LIMPITT: "Fine, great! Let's all make friends with the human!!! - now we should get back to town."\par
GENEVA: "Town? There's no town around here, I'd know about it if there was."\par
LIMPITT: "Ah crap."\par
PERIWYNKLE: (smile) "Yes Limpitt. I thought that was a 'colossal secret never to be imparted to the living'? Surely worse than just talking to them."\par
LIMPITT: "Shut up! And let's get out of here whilst we're ahead!"\par
ORACLE: "G., I'm pickin' up somethin' from when da Gremlin cut through here, ol' Edizon was whispering inside his mind..."\par
ORACLE: "  'Anything that moves, my servant, strike it down! Cast your magic all about you. Be the instrument of my revenge, be haste itself. Seek out order, and leave chaos in your wake!'  "\par
WELK: "That's the watchamacalit that attacked me? That don't sound good."\par
GENEVA: "If I know anything about the Gremlin, then he's headed for your town right now, and if not..."\par
LIMPITT: "If not?"\par
GENEVA: "Then he's already there, doing what he did to Welk here, to anything and anyone he can get his claws into."\par
GENEVA: "Look, you need my help, and I need yours. I'm seeking the ancestral home of the Murdo family, perhaps you know of it..."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Limpitt, you know what we have to do?"\par
LIMPITT: "Hold on. No! This is ridiculous! It's not allowed, it's -never- been done before!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "We OWE it to her, and we do still need her help."\par
WELK: (grin) "We got to invite the pretty lady into our hidden realm."\par
PERIWYNKLE: (smile) "Then it's decided?"\par
LIMPETT: (weary) "*siiigh* ... I hope we don't regret this."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Ghost Town \cf3\ulnone\b0  (location window is blacked out)\cf0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 The three ghosts lead her across the Steppes.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 PERIWYNKLE: "Keep following us please Miss. But close your eyes for a moment."\par
GENEVA: "Where are you three leading me? I know this place, it's just the ruins of one of the old towns that were swallowed up when the land died."\par
PERIWYNKLE: (grin) "*heehee!* - Now, open them."\par
GENEVA: "...all right..."\par
\par
\par
\pard\cf2\ul\b Location: Ghost Town \cf3\ulnone\b0  (location window reveals the ghostly town)\cf0\par
\pard\li1136\par
PERIWYNKLE: "And welcome to New Hades! Population -1307! A world never before looked on by living eyes!"\par
GENEVA: (shock) "*gasp!*"\par
WELK: "Pretty swift, huh?"\par
ORACLE: "Saint John!"\par
GENEVA: "All the lights!... the building are shimmering. Moving! And whole again. It's as if the town were alive!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "They are alive, as alive as the three of us anyhow. Our town is a gathering of spirit energy, a'glow with the wishes of the dead."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "There are so many spirits drawn to the Steppes that they began to live in hidden communities like this. And New Hades is the biggest of them all."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "What do you think?"\par
GENEVA: (surprised) "Well the name's a little corny... but this place is -truly- amazing."\par
ORACLE: "Dis feels like a home away from home! If we don't ever find a way to fix me back to my old self, a spooky old head could settle down here."\par
WELK: "So, can I show the lady around?"\par
LIMPITT: "Welcoming a living human here, it's unprecedented..."\par
GENEVA: "But I'm not even the first living creature to come through here tonight, you've got a gremlin problem. Look right there, a glyph. And there'll be more!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Limpitt?"\par
LIMPITT: "Please... fix it?"\par
GENEVA: (smile) "Okay, please stand clear of the wand. Sorceress at work!"\par
\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Violin\par
\par
\pard\li1136 LIMPITT: "Blow me down, the Mayor's violin! There'll be a big reward for returning this to him, it's lucky I suggested that we invite the sorceress here!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Yes... that is lucky, isn't it Welk?"\par
LIMPITT: "*ahem* That -WE- invited her here."\par
WELK: "That's a good Limpy."\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Town Bell\par
\par
\pard\li1136 BELL: "(musical note) *DOOOOOOOOM-NGGG!* (musical note)"\par
GENEVA: (pain) "Ouch! That bell,  I've never heard such a deep, funereal chime!"\par
WELK: "Yeah-heh, well we got our civic pride here you know. That's the sound that wakes us up every day for evening breakfast."\par
GENEVA: "You... still eat?"\par
WELK: (grin) "What, you think we'd create a whole town out of spirit power, and not save some over for bacon and sossies? Uh-haha!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Mouldy bread\par
\par
\pard\li1136 ORACLE: "Funky."\par
GENEVA: "Eww, that's more mould than bread. Does someone really want this back?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "I admit, some of our citizens get 'overly sentimental' about mementos from their old lives... it's in the nature of our existence, I suppose."\par
GENEVA: "What do you mean?"\par
LIMPITT: "Unfinished business. That's why we're all here."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "You don't become one of the floating masses unless there was something in your life that... well, wasn't resolved, satisfactorily. Folks here are all tied to one thing or another."\par
WELK: "But hey, generally speaking, you can't find a more forward looking bunch of stiffs!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Ornate urn \par
\par
\pard\li1136 WELK: (loud) "Ohmygod!"\par
GENEVA: "Huh, what's this?"\par
WELK: (giddy) "You've SAVED me, you've saved me all over again! Oho!"\par
LIMPITT: "*sigh* It's the big lunk's earthly remains."\par
WELK: "My ashes, bless you gorgeous!!!"\par
GENEVA: "...ah. No problem Welk."\par
\pard\par
\par
(5) Spirit Still\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: (wry smile) "Hey, guys. Is this used for making what I think it is?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Uh... Wait, I wouldn't taste that if I were you...!"\par
GENEVA: (disgust/sour) "*sip* Hmmknk!!! *cough cough*"\par
GENEVA: (ill looking) "Whoa mama. What's it made from?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "This, Full-Moonshine - Spiritgin, is brewed from the deep melancholies and lingering sadness of the land of Netherweir."\par
GENEVA: (nervous) "Really?!?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: (smile) "No. It's mostly old apples and a dash of formaldehyde."\par
WELK: "Ha! Rescuing this old beauty is sure going to put a smile back on the town's face. Serious brownie points!"\par
\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 New Hades is free from glyphs, and the Mayor re-emerges to greet their saviour.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 MAYOR MORTY: (playing his violin) "*Screeech (musical note)* *Screee* *Squuieeeeeeeek (musical note)*"\par
MAYOR MORTTY: "Ahah, music to my ears. Who is it I have to thank for saving my town?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Uhhh... Mayor Morty, what happened was, well there was no other way you see, and so we..."\par
GENEVA: "Hi."\par
MAYOR MORTY: "Bless my soul, a human here in our midst!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: (quiet) "Th-that's right Mayor. She's been a real -godsend- and I hope you understand that there..."\par
MAYOR MORTY: "So, we owe you a great deal, our first human visitor. And now I must ask that you stay here and enjoy our hospitality... FOREVER!"\par
GENEVA: "What!?!"\par
MAYOR MORTY: "Ahahaha! Just my little joke - I've been saving that one for some time. Ahem."\par
MAYOR MORTY: "Very good. And what can we do to repay the kindness you have shown us tonight? Hmm?"\par
WELK: "The lady is looking for the ancient home of the Murdo family, right Peri?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "That's right, Mayor..."\par
MAYOR MORTY: (serious) "Oh? Oh dear, how unfortunate. Imparting such information is quite against the spirit code of silence."\par
MAYOR MORTY: "Luckily, we never have much liked that smug git, Unctious. Or any of his ancestors for that matter. Would a certain three... guides be of use?"\par
GENEVA: (eager grin) "Yes! Yes indeed, they would. Can we leave immediately?"\par
MAYOR MORTY: (smile) "Well I'd have liked to make you more welcome, your presence here is refreshing. But I don't see why not? You are familiar with the way aren't you, my lads?"\par
LIMPITT: "Yes Mayor, right away Mayor! Come on Peri, Welk - I know the perfect route."\par
WELK: (quiet) "*cough*Suck up*cough*."\par
PERIWYNKLE: (grin) "Ha-ha! Alright miss, I'm pleased we're going to be able to thank you personally for everything you've done."\par
\par
\pard\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Haunted Bayou\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 The 3 ghosts paddle a small barge, and it passes along a river way through a Haunted Bayou.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 LIMPITT: (paddling a small barge) "Back on the waves, it's been a long, long time."\par
WELK: "(paddling) "This feeble old river has barely got water, let alone proper waves. Uh-huh! But it reminds me of the good old days."\par
LIMPITT: "The good old days, you dumbbell?! How can you call them that?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: (paddling) "Ah lighten up and admit it - we had some fine times! Don't you feel a just little lifesick for our fishing days?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: (intense) "We three against the elements. Out beyond Godo's Teeth, ploughing across a raging sea, and limping back to harbor with our nets full!"\par
LIMPITT: "Drowning! Don't forget the drowning part, I think that's quite important."\par
GENEVA: "Um?! Are you sure you three know what you're doing? Should I be wearing a life jacket for this trip?"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Our unfortunate deaths are behind us, miss."\par
WELK: "Yeah, and it was Limpitt's fault anyway."\par
LIMPITT: "MY fault?! I spotted it first but we all we all know what we saw, shining beneath the waves like a sapphire star had fallen from the sky..."\par
WELK: "..."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "..."\par
LIMPITT: "It was greed that led to our sad demise, mutual greed for a treasure beyond words. And it's still out there, under the Western sea. Waiting."\par
GENEVA: (sceptical) "Fishermen, huh? That sounds like a Fisherman's tale alright."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "It's true miss. And there's another like it, black as night and buried at the centre of the Steppes, some say. Some say t'is the cause of the blight itself! But perhaps that's for another time."\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Let's concentrate on getting the lady to her destination, eh fellas. Um, actually, we never asked your name?"\par
GENEVA: "I'm Geneva. Geneva Creaux."\par
WELK: "Miss Geneva... (heart)"\par
LIMPITT: "Watch where you're paddling, lard ass!"\par
WELK: "YOU watch where YOU'RE paddling, tightwad!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "Hey, hey! Shouldn't we have reached the Murdo Mansion bayou by now? There should be a jetty right there..."\par
WELK: "Limpitt, you've been paddling too hard!"\par
LIMPITT: "Why is everything my fault?! If we're lost then maybe you're the reason!"\par
PERIWYNKLE: "I don't understand this."\par
GENEVA: "Will everyone stop arguing! I've spotted something ... -there-, half-buried in the mud and mangrove roots."\par
GENEVA: (worried, thought) "It's a... glyph. By Umberto's breath, I'd completely forgotten about the Gremlin."\par
GENEVA: (blank, thought) "Visions of the Crux have forced everything else from my mind... but fate seems to insist that I'm closing in on both."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Spooky Jetty\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720\cf3 With the landing back in place, Geneva is able to safely leave the barge.\cf0\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136\cf3 GENEVA: "One to disembark, boys."\par
PERIWYNKLE: (smile) "...Goodbye, Miss Geneva. I'm so glad I trusted you."\par
WELK: (grin) "I'm glad he trusted you too!"\par
LIMPITT: "Hope you find what you're looking for up there. Follow the jetty, and then through those trees, that's Murdo Mansion."\par
GENEVA: (thought) "The Mansion!"\par
GENEVA: (pulsing shadow effect around her portrait, thought) "*long exhale* - I can feel it. The Gran Crux is here!"\par
GENEVA: "I have to go."\par
3 PADDLING AWAY: (Welk at the back, calling out and waving madly, quiet) "Don't be a stranger, come visit sometime! You're my hero-oooo!"\par
GENEVA: "Hah. I'm no hero, anymore than you're a long distance runner, Doc."\par
ORACLE: "Do you remember our little chat about feelings? At all?"\par
GENEVA: "Up this bank and through the trees... come on. This is it!"\par
ORACLE: "Da moment you been waiting for."\par
MURDO: "*spoink!*" (portrait shows him appearing)\par
GENEVA: "Ah, Murdo - I wondered when you'd show."\par
MURDO: "What?! How in the blue blazes did you find me?"\par
GENEVA: (smile) "..."\par
MURDO: (loud) "Well you're not welcome here! GO ON, SCRAM!!! Or I'll - I'll set my spook-hounds on you!"\par
GENEVA: "'Spook-hounds'? Tut-tut. Murdo, why are you trying to get rid of me. Don't you understand what's happening here?"\par
MURDO: (lost) "Happening ...wha?"\par
GENEVA: "I'm the one chasing the Gremlin, remember? And can you imagine how much damamge one of those can do to precious possessions?..."\par
MURDO: "P-P-precious... the mansion!..."\par
GENEVA: "That's right, and you'd better let me inside."\par
MURDO: (loud) "Never!"\par
GENEVA: "Really? Ouch. I'd hate to think what that pest is doing to your valuables, right now. Whilst we're standing around talking..."\par
MURDO: (melodramatic tears) "Bwa-hur-hurrr! *sob* Oh no, NOOO!"\par
GENEVA: "So?"\par
MURDO: (angry) "Very well. Errrgh! I don't have a choice."\par
\pard\cf0\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Murdo Mansion\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\pard\li1136\cf3 POX: (firing an energy bolt) "Grrrr-rargh!"\par
POX: (looking behind) "...?"\par
EDIZON IN POX'S MIND: "Hurry you worthless boob! The girl with the deadly wand is right behind you, your delaying tactics have failed miserably!"\par
EDIZON IN POX'S MIND: "Well then, RUN! ...Oh, for goodness sake. It's like trying to train an amoeba. I can't tell if it's even listening to me... POX!!!'\par
EDIZON IN POX'S MIND: "FINALLY! That's it you liability, hurry and hide!"\par
POX: (scurries away) "Gaooogh!"\par
\cf0 MURDO: "You may enter... girl. 'Welcome' to my ancestral home."\par
GENEVA: "*sniff* Ancestral? That's just fancy talk for plain old - it reeks of rotting wood and musty, stale air. But I guess you don't get a lot of visitors anymore."\par
MURDO: "Show some respect here, half-blood! It's only a matter of time before my family returns to greatness!"\par
GENEVA: "Ooh, I see glyphs! Now did you NEED my help or not?"\par
MURDO: (loud) "Just you fix what the gremlin has done to my Mansion!"\par
GENEVA: "Hmm, I don't know..."\par
MURDO: "Erggghh!...."\par
GENEVA: "Murdo? (musical note)"\par
MURDO: (quiet) ".... pleeease. ..."\par
ORACLE: "G., I don't know if dis is still important to you - but da Gremlin is -real- near by. Dey were talkin' here barely moments ago!"\par
GENEVA: (thought, dark glow around her portrait again) "I can't believe this, it feels like a dream. The Crux, it's -so- close. I could be standing just feet away from it."\par
ORACLE: "Cher?"\par
GENEVA: (thought) "How very different my life will be when I hold it in my hands. I've pictured the moment a thousand times. Now -where- would the Murdos hide it?... "\par
ORACLE: "Cher? Are you listening, this is as close as we've been to the Gremlin! Do you remember, the quest you took from your fiyo wizard friend?"\par
GENEVA: "M-Matthius? The Gremlin's right here?! But the Crux... Oh, I can't think straight."\par
MURDO: "What are you waiting for, girl, look he's attacked the Murdo family portraits! You agreed to fix this!!!"\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) Painted Portrait 1 - Septimus Murdo\par
\par
\pard\li1136 MURDO: "OhHhHh! Oh lucky day, it's unharmed."\par
GENEVA: " 'Septimus Murdo', yes I can see the resemblance. It's mostly in the nose. The cruel face. The pompous stance. Weak chin. Beady eyes..."\par
MURDO: "This is our oldest surviving portrait, only the seventh generation from the original Murdo. It's hundreds of years old, priceless!"\par
GENEVA: "Priceless? That's the same as worthless, right?"\par
MURDO: "Bah, you're too lowly to understand it, girl. This about breeding!"\par
GENEVA: (cross) "Careful, shade."\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) Painted Portrait 2 - Excelsior Murdo\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "Hmm?"\par
MURDO: "Oh yes, this is a particularly cherished portrait. Excelsior Murdo, he was a - uh - great, great man."\par
GENEVA: (curious) "That's strange, he's ... quite handsome, I suppose I'd be forced to say."\par
MURDO: "Handsomeness runs in my family, haven't you noticed! -He's- not the finest example of it by a long shot."\par
MURDO: (quiet) "Yeeeeees, back in it's proper place. Hurhurhur!"\par
\pard\par
\par
(3) Painted Portrait 3 - Randolpho Murdo\par
\par
\pard\li1136 MURDO: "Quickly girl, set it back in its place, up there next to Croeseus. Mind the gilt! Now straighten it out! No, no - more to the left."\par
MURDO: "Ahhh, perfect!"\par
GENEVA: "I really wouldn't go that far..."\par
MURDO: "Randolpho, the Great Randolpho Murdo, one of my most enterprising and successful forefathers!"\par
GENEVA: "He certainly looks well fed. And what a lovely wig, did he regret not being born a lady or was that simply all the rage in those days?"\par
MURDO: "Bite your tongue, peasant."\par
\pard\par
\par
(4) Painted Portrait 4 - Unctious Murdo\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: (grin) "Wow, and who is this dashing fellow? 'Unctious Murdo'. Wait now, but this heartbreaker can't be you can it?"\par
MURDO: "None of your lip, girl. The portrait is immeasurably valuable to me, it is a document to my place in the history of the world's most powerful family!"\par
GENEVA: "Hmm. There's something different about you. Have you lost some weight since this was painted?"\par
MURDO: (angry, quiet) "Grrrrr, if I didn't need you here-..."\par
\pard\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-720\li720 The four glyphed pictures are restored to their original places.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 MURDO: "Oh yes, most glorious! The gallery of Kings is complete again. The greatness of our lineage cannot be denied!"\par
GENEVA: "That's a lot of pairs of beady eyes."\par
MURDO: "Hmmm... yes, I appreciate the service you've done for us. Well now, you must move on quickly and track the pest down before he gets away!"\par
GENEVA: "Nineteen portraits, all in order. That's curious..."\par
MURDO: "Aha-ha, curious? What, are you still thinking about the family treasures?! *snort* I assure you I was bragging, my girl. Doing it for show, grandstanding, making it all up!"\par
GENEVA: (narrowed eyes) "Each of the paintings is dated, but -that's not right-. There's one too many."\par
GENEVA: "You told me earlier the Wanderer is your great-grandson - but there are three paintings on the wall between yours and where his would be."\par
MURDO: (panicked) "Honestly, girl. You're mistaken, now I really must -insist- we move on before the gremlin does any more damage!"\par
GENEVA: "One of these, must be a FAKE. One of these three was never a real Murdo! AHA!"\par
GENEVA: "Only one Murdo out of all of these is displaying the family riches instead of hoarding them away. Ha! And only one has managed a smile for their portrait."\par
GENEVA: (grin) "Now that really was a give away, Unctious."\par
MURDO: (panic) "Gah! Stop!"\par
GENEVA: "The handsome Excelsior is the fake!"\par
GENEVA: (her hand pushes the painting) "A gentle push perhaps? - *CLICK*"\par
MURDO: (red-faced angry, loud) "NooOO! Don't you go in there, girl. You'll be sorry! Come baaaack!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Murdo Mansion \cf0\ulnone\b0  Location picture changes to a tight dark, wood panelled corridor\par
\par
\pard\li1136\par
GENEVA: "A hidden corridor! Judging by the color of Murdo's face this has to lead to a vault!"\par
GENEVA: "What's that creaking?"\par
ORACLE: "It ain't me, I can tell you dat. Wait, wait, wait. Yea, da gremlin is still close by G., and da lightnin' wizard is talking. He's speakin' right now!"\par
ORACLE: "  'Yes! Attack, hit it with every ounce of power you have!'"\par
GENEVA: "It's the Mansion. The whole Mansion sounds like it's moaning!"\par
ORACLE: "  'Bring it down! Bring it all crashing down on her! A-HA-HAA-HAA!!!'  "\par
GENEVA: (panicked, running) "Damn it, he's going to kill us! I have to hurry, it's so close!"\par
GENEVA: (running, thought) "It's so close... but which -it- do I even mean?"\par
GENEVA: (running, thought) "The gremlin that has to be stopped before freeing its evil Master, or the Crux, that I've been so desperately seeking for eight years of my life?!"\par
GENEVA: (shock) "*Gasp!* That unearthly light..."\par
THE GRAN CRUX: (a view of a weird purple light at the end of a corridor, and filaments of energy curling from a dark orb, sat upon a marble pedestal) "...the Gran Crux! Right in front of me, i-it's real!"\par
GENEVA: "Huh?! And there!..."\par
POX: "Grr-gaaoogh!" (other general riches and the gremlin, fleeing away from her)\par
ORACLE: (yellow eyes, loud) "  'YEEES! That's it! The last beam destroyed, now get out, Pox! Flee! Fly! IT'S COMING DOWN!!!'  "\par
GENEVA: (frozen) "Choose!..."\par
GENEVA: (running headlong forwards through splinters) "I can reach it!..."\par
GENEVA: (running headlong forwards through splinters) "I  can-!....Aiiieeeeee!"\par
ORACLE: "Aaaaaargh!!! The roof is falling!"\par
KARA: (young girl, hair flying wildly up, surounded by spiraling wind and flying pieces of broken wood) "Hey You!"\par
GENEVA: (struggling through debris)"*pant* Ah, ah! *pant*"\par
KARA: "Come on, silly! Take my hand, I can't juggle this mansion all day."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Murdo Mansion\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Location window cuts to a picture just of the sky at dawn.\par
\par
\pard\li1136 GENEVA: "What the-?"\par
KARA: "Wahoo! Dawn winds are the best for flying, everything looks all pretty! (heart)"\par
KARA: "What we're you doing down there in that pokey old place anyway?"\par
GENEVA: (though bubble) "Down?...Oh my - look at that. There's the mansion, falling to splinters and the Crux destroyed along with it! Gone forever." \par
MURDO: (in the wreckage, looking up, shouting) "NOOOO! NOOOOOOO-OOOOOOOO!"\par
MURDO: (fading, quiet) "Noooooooooooo! It's all over!"\par
MURDO: (faded away to nothing, quiet) "..."\par
GENEVA: (thought bubble) "But, when the moment came..."\par
GENEVA: (thought bubble, soft smile) "...I chose the Gremlin."\par
GENEVA: (thought) "If I'd chosen the Crux, it would have unleashed all of my strength ... -and- the darkness that it comes from. I.. I know that now."\par
GENEVA: (thought) "It would have been so easy not to fight for that balance any more, but I wouldn't really have ever been in control again, would I?"\par
GENEVA: (thought) "So long as I can know what's right and -choose- that path, harness my  Shadow and use it to take me where I need to be..."\par
GENEVA: (thought) "... then I'll be more powerful than the Crux ever could have made me. And I -can- harness it. I -CAN-."\par
GENEVA: (out loud) "Maybe there's hope for me yet. Heh."\par
KARA: "Ooh, is that little guy the gremlin? He looks kinda mad!" \par
KARA: "Hee hee! Look at him dancing, shooting out these sparkly- !!!"\par
KARA: "Yipe!" (Kara is hit by Pox's magic!) \par
KARA & GENEVA: (falling) "*scream*"\par
BLACKNESS: "..."\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Fallen Glyph \cf3\ulnone\b0 - long location transition musical cue\cf0\par
\pard\li1136\cf3\par
GENEVA:  "It's here."\par
GENEVA: "The glyph lays here, you were right, old friend". \par
ORACLE: "Even da smallest things have their own secret voices, dat may whisper to dose willing to listen."\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf3\par
\par
(1) Kara's wizard portrait puzzle\par
\par
\pard\li1136 KARA: (fuming) "OOH! How rude! I can't *believe* what that little twerp did to me!!!"\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: (surprise, happy) "Oh hi again, it's you. (musical note)"\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: smiling: "I'm Geneva, - Geneva Creaux."\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: (wide eyed, smile) "And my name's Kara, Princess of the Winds."\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: (super excited) "You're a Smoke Elementalist aren't you? Ooooh! Looky at that, what kind of wand is it? It looks really old and cool. Hey, are you hurt?"\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: (weary) "No, I'm not hurt. More tired than anything."\par
GENEVA:  (smiling) "Here you can have this if you like. Give that gremlin a whack with it and he'll know not to mess with you again."\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: (very brightly, surprise) "Tha-anks! (musical note) That mean old thing deserves a whack!"\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: (wide eyed, smile) "He's Edizon's pet isn't he?"\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: "Pet? Um, yeah, but how did you know that?"\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA, (wide eyed, smile) "Oh, I know pretty much everything. The fate of the world hangs in the balance, and all that stuff."\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: (pouting angrily) "I'm not a dumb kid you know!"\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: (unsure) "Uh..."\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: (very brightly) "Okay then! (heart) Don't worry, I'll flatten that twerp like he flattened your house."\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: (smile): "It wasn't my-"\cf0\par
\cf3 KARA: "See ya! Don't worry about a thing!"\par
KARA: "I'll take care of it before you can blink!"\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: (smile, thought bubble) "For some strange reason, I have every confidence you will, Kara, Princess of the Winds."\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: (smile) "*Wheeew* Now, I'm going to rest up for a moment - and when I journey back across the Steppes, for the first time, it won't be as the 'Divided One'."\par
GENEVA: "It'll be as plain old Geneva. With the Crux gone, maybe I can start getting used to that idea."\par
ORACLE: (crooked wink) "I wouldn't have wanted ta lose her, y'know cher."\cf0\par
\cf3 GENEVA: "I have to accept it, this is who I am. What I'll always be. And who'd have ever thought that could feel... so good?"\par
\cf0\par
\par
}
 