{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green0\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red127\green127\blue127;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\lang2057\ul\b\f0\fs22 Hero Glyphix - Journey 8\cf0\fs20\par
\par
\ulnone "\fs22 Edizon's Revenge\fs20 " - \b0 Edizon's Journey\par
4 puzzles in 13 parts.\b\par
\par
\b0 Finally, after 857 puzzles, we reach the climax of Hero Glyphix. By this point the player should be playing with the Vanglorian shield mark (the 4th rank-up bonus) and feel ready for anything that comes at them.\par
\par
It's our job to still throw some curveballs - and to end this game in a way that makes them remember the name Quest Engine.\par
\par
\par
\b 'Hero':\b0  Franklin Edizon\par
\par
An effete, dandy, pompous, immensely intelligent but even more immensely misguided and foolish, power-mad Lightning Wizard. \par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Glacier Pass\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\cf3\b [Begin in a brand new location outside, North of the prison] \cf0\b0 Edizon's portrait switches between shouting and almost imploding, fuming with rage:\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 EDIZON: "Where... where -is- it?" (Snarl)\par
EDIZON: "If I werern't so weak from languishing six months in that detention cell, I would..." (furious)\par
EDIZON: "Return to me, Gremlin and perhaps I shall be forgiving. I command you. -I- am your MASTER!" (shouting, hand to forehead, one eye narrowed)\par
POX: (hiding behind an ice form resisting the command, cross/sad face) "Rrrrrrr!" \par
EDIZON: "I gave you freedom from -your- prison, Pox. And then you doublecross me? Me?! Hfff, after everything I have so done... " (fuming)\par
EDIZON: "That's it, REVENGE, you hear me? Revenge will be mine!" (Shouting)\par
EDIZON: "Did you imagine you could leave Franklin Edizon to rot?! I, the mighty Lightning Wizard discarded, turned to a child's puzzle!" (mild)\par
EDIZON: "I burst with rrrRAGE!" (fuming to boiling point)\par
EDIZON: "Do not dare to dream I shall be fooling around like those bleary halfwits, I'll seek you out right now."\par
EDIZON: "Your worthless hide shall be made my comfy carpet slippers of delight!" (Bellowing grin, eyes to one side)\par
POX: (bolting into the open) "*skitter*"\par
EDIZON: "AHA! My foe!" (Mad, angry glee)\par
EDIZON: "Dodge this, you cretinous crouton!"\par
EDIZON: "HUHU-HA-HAA-HAAA! LIGHTNING!" (lightning powers go wild)\par
SKY: (Dark clouds) "*Rumble*"\par
POX: (Lighting strikes behind him, as he runs)"*lightning crack!*"\par
EDIZON: "YES, MY BEAUTIFUL POWERS COURSE THROUGH MY VEINS AGAIN! -LIGHTNING!!!-" (lightning powers go wild)\par
SKY: (Dark clouds) "*Rumble-Rumble*"\par
POX: "*Squeal*" (Pox flies through the air, after a narrow miss sears the ground in an explosion of ice)\par
EDIZON: (Deadly calm, and pompous, looking down) "Mm-hmm. Servant, you are of no more use to me..."\par
POX: (Laying tripped on the snow, looking up eyes wide) "..."\par
EDIZON: "YOU FRY!" (Blaze of anger, lightning powers shoot vertically)\par
SKY: (Dark clouds split with lightning, snow spills from the sky) * Rumble--CRACK!--Rumble*\par
EDIZON: "Hmmm? What did I..." (looking up)\par
EDIZON: (Engulfed in blizzard) "Grrmph!?! *spit*"\par
POX: (The merest suggestion of a blurred shape fleeing through the snow-clogged air) "*Gwa-ha-hahaa!*"\par
EDIZON: "NoooOOOOooOOAAAooAARGH!!!" (The angriest thing you've ever seen, sparks and steam)\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Blizzard\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\cf3\b [The blizzard obscures the precise location] \cf0\b0 Edizon blunders through the heavy snowstorm.\par
\pard\par
\pard\li1136 EDIZON: "*cough cough* Oooooh!" (Very quiet, mouth closed, but clearly furious)\par
EDIZON: "This changes NOTHING, I'll still find you." (steam rising as blizzard whips his face)\par
EDIZON: "Even if I cannot see what - *Aagh!* My FOOT!"\par
EDIZON: "What is -this-?"\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) - Stone #1 (a golden metal gremlin set to a broken stone with runic markings)\par
\par
\pard\li1136 EDIZON: (snooty) "Hmph, an old magical artifact... I'd say 7th century. Runically engraved and set with a golden metal Pox gremlin."\par
EDIZON: "Trash, of no intrinsic value or aesthetic merit. Well, is this supposed to mean something?"\par
EDIZON: (angry) "Bah, you think to use my own delaying tactics on me? Glyphs won't slow -me- down...."\cf3\b\par
\pard\par
\cf4\b0\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Blizzard (II)\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\cf3\b [Location picture changes to show two dim yellow glows through the blizzard ahead] \cf0\b0\par
\pard\li1136\cf4\par
EDIZON: (glint) "\cf0 ...in fact..."\cf4\par
EDIZON: "AHA-HA! Your glyphs glow in the light of the storm? You have unwittingly laid a path to your destruction, you hairy boob!"\par
EDIZON: "MY FURY WILL BE UNLEASHED!! *cough*" (so very angry)\cf0\par
???: A wavering image of a \cf5 red \cf0 gremlin forms in the air "*Gua-hee-hee-hee!*"\par
EDIZON: "Heh? Is that you Gremlin...?" (angry puzzled)\par
EDIZON: "I am following your breadcrumbs." (hunched, evil anger smile)\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) - Stone #2 - Caduceus design\par
\par
\pard\li1136 ???: A wavering image of a furry \cf6 green \cf0 gremlin forms in the air"*Hua-gu-gu-guu!*"\par
EDIZON: (looking about) "What? What's there?"\par
EDIZON: (snooty) "Hmm...From that glyph, comes another stone antiquity - possibly an interlocking fragment to the first piece."\par
EDIZON: (curious) "It features an engraved Caduceus design, based on this very wand. Hmmm."\par
\pard\par
\par
(2) - Stone #3 - Methusaleh's seal & incantation\par
\par
\pard\li1136 ??? : "*Hwa-hwa-hwaa!*" (faint \cf7 orange \cf0 gremlin vision)\par
EDIZON: (spinning to his left) "Hmm?"\par
??? : "*Gwee-hweee-hee-heee!*" (faint \cf8 purple \cf0 gremlin vision)\par
EDIZON: (wheeling to his right) "Hah? What?! Stop this foolery Pox!"\par
EDIZON: (super angry, loud) "Show yourself! . . ."\par
EDIZON: (curious) "...you leave me another stone relief. This, bearing an incantation of binding and Oban Methusaleh's seal. A curious discovery, I admit..."\par
EDIZON: (snooty, with wand) "Though, the man was a hack, and I very much doubt he constructed this exceptional instrument himself."\par
\pard\par
\par
All solved.\cf4\par
\par
\pard\li1136 EDIZON: "Three stone sections... The Gremlin, the Wand, the Incantation. Yes, yes, these -are- parts of a whole. A magical seal. "\par
EDIZON: (realisation) "THE seal put in place by Methusaleh to prevent passage from the Gremlin World into this one!"\par
EDIZON: "Oh, I found a way to circumvent it easily enough to summon a single wretched servant to my lab, but this seal is the great dam wall between Magus Magna and a million gremlins."\par
EDIZON: (looking amusingly shifty and concerned) "Broken!...  by my errant familiar... That may not be serendipitous news for me."\par
EDIZON: (fuming fit to burst, thinking)  "And my plan has already backfired quite enough for my satisfaction, curse it!"\par
EDIZON: (glancing) "Ah well. Finally, the blizzard abates..."\par
\pard\par
 \par
\cf2\ul\b Location: Dimension Gatehub\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\cf4 As the air clears, both the location and portrait images change to reveal Edizon standing on a snowy road lined with a series of twinned stone towers (about 10 feet high) leading to a platform on which a large sphere of pure, blue energy pulsates\cf0\par
\par
\pard\li1136\cf4 EDIZON: "...oh my, behold this place... these arched relics, that eternal glow..." \cf0\par
EDIZON: "It's the Gatehub, intersection of worlds! I hadn't fancied we'd drawn so close to it!"\par
???: A vision appears of a throng of different colored chattering Gremlins\par
EDIZON: "Gah! Then these manifestations are glimpses of the Gremlin hordes, milling, -waiting- just beyond the veil."\par
EDIZON: (eyes narrowed) "And with the seal already shattered, it would only take..."\par
POX: "*Gua-ha-haa-haaa!*" (on the dais, moving to reach for the ball of light)\par
EDIZON: (bubbling under, repressed anger about to explode) "So, this was your plan all along POX!"\par
EDIZON: (angriest, angriest anger ever expressed) "DON'T YOU TOUCH THAT..."\par
POX: "Rrrrrrr!" (grin, reaching, about to touch the sphere)\par
EDIZON: "Have at you!" (wand outstretched, running)\par
POX: "GAAOOoo!" (angry, firing energy bolt)\par
EDIZON: (portrait mainly shows the wand and the blue energy bolt flying from it) "*PHOOM!*"\par
POX & EDIZON: (wide shot, energies collide, loud) "*Crackle!!!*"\par
EDIZON: (malicious glee, bathed in green light) "Grrrrrrrrrrrrr! It ends here!!!"\par
POX: (eyes narrowed, defiant, bathed in yellow light) "RRRarrrrgh!"\par
\pard\par
\cf1 Puzzles\cf0\par
\par
(1) - Reverse Pox\par
\par
\cf9 This will be the most full-on Pox battle we're capable of making! As always it's a 'simple' 15x15 puzzle but Pox's actions will make it anything but easy.\cf0\par
~~\par
\par
When this puzzle is finally solved, the color wash effect paints a solid, stone-colored version of Pox's face. The portrait window shows Pox yelling and being transformed by his own relfected magic into a glyph. At last he has been stopped. \par
\par
\pard\li1136 POX: (yelling, with blue crackles) "GGGUUAAAAAAAAAOOOOOOORRRR!"\par
POX: (become a falling glyph) "G-! ... ... .."\par
POX: (the glyph lies in the snow) "*thud*"\par
EDIZON:  Stamps his foot onto the heavy stone tablet after it falls to the ground "*STAMP!*"\par
EDIZON: "Yeeee-ES! HaHA!"  (jubilant, shouting in triumph)\par
EDIZON: "There, the Gremlin is put down. And I am free, FREE AT LAST!"\par
EDIZON: (ego-maniacal) "Now my resplendant Golem Army shall rise again and a world of my design will tremble at my sandalled feet. AHAHAA!"\par
EDIZON: "You have enjoyed but a brief respite from the Age of Edizon, now beware you fools of mediocrity, I TRIUMPH! In mere moments I will -"\par
\par
MATTHIUS: "Talking to yourself? -tut tut- I believe that's the first sign of madness, Edizon."\par
EDIZON: "- wha?"\par
HOWARD: "I'll look after this again now, shall I?" (holding Vanglorian)\par
EDIZON: (blustering, angry and empty-handed, sparks crackle on his body) "NO! You and *you*, how did -"\par
HOWARD: "Skimlet, if you'd be so kind?"\par
SKIMLET: "I'm right on it." (grinning)\par
SKIMLET: "Hah! -AQUA-" (water powers)\par
EDIZON: "Nghghghgh!" (shorting out)\par
MATTHIUS: "-FLAM!-" (Deadly focused, with a hint of a grin, Matthius uses his fire powers)\par
EDIZON: (smoking, and hurting but with a mad glint in his eye) "Yaaargh! AHAHAA, you don't think that would work a second time did you? It would take-"\par
KARA: "Six of us?" (nonchalant and smiling)\par
KARA: "Good boy, Kii.Kii That was fast work rounding up -everyone-." (petting Kii Kii)\par
EDIZON: "Buh-buh but, no. NO!"\par
ORACLE OF WHISPERS: (flying, mouth open) "YAAA!"\par
EDIZON: (oracle attached to his hand, pain) "Yeeeeouch!!!!"\par
GENEVA: "*laughs* Let go Doc, we have him!"\par
HOWARD: "Ladies?" (smiling)\par
GENEVA: "Shadow!"\par
JUDITH: "And Light!"\par
EDIZON: (reeling, in a weird light) "Nnnnnnnnnnnnnn..."\par
KARA: "Sky!" (Kii kii now on her shoulder)\par
HOWARD: "Earth!"\par
SKIMLET: "Ocean!"\par
MATTHIUS: "Flame!"\par
EDIZON: "NO! NO! NOoOoO!" (he spins, caught in a flash of six colors)\par
EDIZON: (then he faints dramatically landing in an awkward, silly-looking position) "*faints*"\par
MATTHIUS: (glance down & smile) "Hmm."\par
MATTHIUS: (bending, tapping Pox's table) "'Give the devil his due'."\par
MATTHIUS: (bending, turned & smiling)  "The Quest is complete."\par
GENEVA: "'All's well that ends' well, hey Red? It looks like with Edizon's help, our Journey is over." (smiling)\par
HOWARD: "And about time too, I didn't fancy facing a swarm of those blessed gremlins out here in a snow drift, what!" \par
SKIMLET: "Me neither, I.. Doughball, get back here!!!"\par
DOUGHBALL & KII KII: Doughball wide eyed looking fixedly at Kii kii, (both on the ground)\par
KARA: "Kii-kii, shoulder now!"\par
DOUGHBALL & KII-KII: "Weow!" The kitten's eyes are narrowed, his left paw swinging in a flurry at an angry looking Kii-kii as Skimlet picks him up.\par
SKIMLET: "Ah! Sorry P-Princess Kara!" (wishing he was dead)\par
KARA: "That's okay handsome. Skimlet isn't it?" (winking)\par
SKIMLET: "-!-" (blushing and looking set to pass out)\par
SKIMLET: "Y-yeahhh." (he manages)\par
JUDITH: "... The future is an uncertain thing, even to me - but by our actions, tomorrow will be a brighter day."\par
JUDITH: "Not just for the world, but ... I feel... for each of us in some way."\par
HOWARD: "Well well, and who could ask for more than that?" (smiling)\par
HOWARD: "Until tomorrow then?"\par
MATTHIUS: "Until tomorrow."\par
GENEVA: "Whatever it brings."\par
SKIMLET: "..." (grinning madly)\par
KARA: "Kii Kii? Time for the return journey."\par
KII KII transforms to KYASTRAL again.\par
KYASTRAL: "Kyaaaaaa!"\par
\pard\par
\par
\cf10 ~~end of game~~\cf0\par
\par
\par
\cf11 Roll the end credits, names scroll up the screen to an up tempo version of the title screen music. The names are interspersed with one-color doodles of things from the game, A Squppig, Woodrot, Scrye, a T-Rex, an Ephemerite (the Light essels that bring Judith's visions to life), Octo-moth, Fungoid, Ghost mayor, Snowbie Supervisor, Mump-ox... we can also use seven colors of elemental heart. (If there aren't enough names to do this 'parade' justice, and let's face it there aren't going to be 57 people to mention ^_^, then perhaps we can make the doodles move  more quickly than the credits are scrolling?)\par
\par
The game ends with an animated version of Howard back in his WizLab home, sitting in a chair smoking his pipe and with Pox's Glyph mounted on the wall behind him. We soak it in for a few moments and then fade to black (if we can fade?)\par
\par
Then cut to the Quest Engine logo with 'Thankyou for Playing!'and 'The End' graphics overlaid. After a few seconds pause, any button or keypress will return the player to the Titlescreen. The game data should have been saved automatically at the end of the 8th Journey to record their achievements and to help them on the way to receiving the bonus Master Mark (once they've also beaten all of the Special timed puzzles)\cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\par
\par
\b Appendix Notes\b0 :\par
\par
Dimensional Gatehub: \cf12 There are four naturally occurring entrances into this world from other 'monster' dimensions, they are located in a ring around the planet one at each pole, and two on its equator. Many of the more unusual magical beasts originally entered Magus Magna from these connective portals.\par
\par
\cf4 Energy Sphere: \cf12 The blue energy sphere through which things may come and go to different dimensions, will look familiar to the player. They will have already seen a smaller version in Edizon's lab in the animated intro! - effectively his summoning spell created a small and very temporary d-gate to the Gremlin World which sought out Pox.\par
\par
\cf4 Gremlin Seal: \cf12 The seal that Pox attacks during the blizzard was originally constructed in Methusaleh's time as part of the attempt to stop the gremlin outbreak of the day. Similar seals are placed on the three other gates.\par
\cf0\par
}
 