{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\ul\f0\fs28 Pox\ulnone\fs20  \cf0 - A nemesis in seven stages\par
\par
\par
Hero Glyphix has two main gameplay features: solving the Picross style puzzles and clashing with Pox, and so it's important that our Gremlin is very carefully used throughout the game. Pox can add adrenalin to certain puzzles, he can create new levels of difficulty that the puzzling alone can't provide, and he should also be entertaining to watch, to anticipate and to -whack-.\par
\par
His behaviours and attacks need to be designed so that he feels like a natural challenging part of the game as a whole, rather than an annoyance. Get it right, and he'll be a pleasingly animated character (upping our presentation values) which the player can build up feelings about and look forward to defeating in the puzzles and in the storyline. Get it wrong and he's a clumsy, cheap way of messing with player whilst they're trying to concentrate!\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Pox's distinctive moves\ulnone\b0\par
\par
You'll see Pox turn up in two types of ways during the game, at incidental puzzles during a journey, and always at the end of a journey in the 'Boss Battle' to free a fellow wizard. Of the two, the Boss Battles are where Pox really creates a challenge and isn't afraid to bust out the nasty moves. In general, Pox will become more aggressive, faster and slipperier as the game progresses. It's also important that his repertoire slowly increases, to give the player a fair learning curve, and more importantly to make each new Boss Battle feel different.\par
\par
Luckily, there are a lot of distinctive moves that we can make from his basic motions of: standing, hopping, leaping, rolling, scratching, biting & shaking. It's just a matter of choosing when to introduce them.\par
\par
\par
\par
Here's my proposal for Pox's evolution throughout the game:\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Boss Battle 1 \b0 - Skimlet saving Howard\ulnone\par
\cf0\par
For the first Boss Battle of the game, Pox's very first appearance, we want to make sure the player isn't put off by too great a challenge. We mustn't make his moves overly frustrating, but at the same time this is the final part of the demo so we really want to demonstrate the fact that Pox will have a lot of variety in what he can do. Pox is an integral feature of the game and we want him to show off.\ul\par
\ulnone\par
For this battle, Pox will typically move around for a while after he appears - leap about, scouting out the area, hopping, taunting the player, rolling from one place to another.. basically giving them time to see what he is and what he does. He'll be slow to go into an actual attack.\par
\par
ATTACKS:\par
\par
- \b Sideways leap\b0 : tall and long with just a single mark affected\par
\par
- \b Drop Stomp\b0 : after casually maneuvering himself up to a higher part of the screen he drops onto a single location\par
\par
- \b Scratch slide\b0 : A leap where he attaches himself to the grid with his claws, but only very slowly starts to slide down affecting anything\par
\par
- \b Timer shake\b0\par
\par
All in all, the player will be given enough thinking time to tackle their first 15x15 puzzle and get used to the idea of an onscreen opponent without too much trouble. There'll be a fair amount of time between Pox being whacked and his reappearance, although a few of the one hundred possible moves will be more quick and aggressive just to give a hint of what he's capable of.\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Boss Battle 2 \b0 - Howard saving Judith\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
Howard meets Pox at one point during his journey, on the coal store puzzle, so the player has beaten him twice by the time they're trying to save Judith. That means Pox can afford to be a little more quick to mess with the grid. In addition to the types of move we've seen previously, he'll use these attacks:\par
\par
- \b Stamping hop\b0 : a variation of regular hopping in which a series of grid locations are affected. Slow enough to be dealt with easily\par
\par
- \b Roll attack\b0 : Pox uses his roll to affect the grid, but will only hit a couple of locations before taunting and disappearing\par
\par
- \b Waterfall Jump\b0 : A series of Drop Stomps moving upwards or down the grid in succession\par
\par
- \b Timer Bite\b0 : A larger hit on the timer\ul\par
\ulnone\par
Judith's puzzle is relatively easy, but these new more elaborate moves require the player to be aware of Pox's impending appearances. A modest but higher reaction time is necessary.\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Boss Battle 3 \b0 - Judith saving Matthius\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
Judith has had a high chance of fighting Pox previously, on the F-train puzzle. There the Gremlin will have used a variety of the moves we've already seen, although they won't be particularly intense. When it comes to the Boss Battle though, he starts to up the challenge:\par
\par
- \b Speed roll\b0 : Pox jumps into a ball, backs up spinning on the spot (Sonic style) and then launches at the grid - affecting several locations\par
\par
- \b Stamping stairway\b0 : After getting near the grid, Pox uses the stamping hop to climb or descend hitting marks in quick succession\par
\par
- \b Feints\b0 : Some of the lead ups to Pox's moves are designed to make the player anticipate incorrectly\par
\par
- \b Timer Stomp\b0 : Pox Drop Stomps onto the timer causing a major time penalty.\ul\par
\ulnone\par
In beating this puzzle, the player should feel more victorious and relieved for the first time.\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Boss Battle 4 \b0 - Matthius saving Geneva\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
Matthius encounters Pox at multiple places during his journey, especially on the large Five Gardens puzzles. Pox uses a wide variety of the moves we've seen so far in those general battles and he's about as challenging as he was in Howard's Boss Battle. In those occasional appearances the player learns to stay alert, but will find they can afford to give most of their attention to the puzzle itself. For Geneva's glyph however, Pox isn't slow to attack, and he's been saving some extra nasties:\par
\par
- \b Epicentre Stomp\b0 : Pox leaps sideways and then drops vertically very fast onto the grid. When he lands he continues to vibrate, and if not stopped the area he affects spreads out in a ripple!\par
\par
- \b Bouncing Bomb\b0 : Pox laughs, goes into a roll, bounces off the side of the screen and hurtles back towards the grid, bouncing several times. This only affects one location at a time, but is the fastest move so far.\par
\par
- \b Scratch-Slash\b0 : Pox maneuvers himself below the grid, jumps high and then digs in his claws to pull a fast vertical slash down the grid. He'll particularly use this to target the left and right hand columns, which are very useful in solving the glyphs\par
\par
Whilst Pox won't overuse these special moves, they'll be common enough to unsettle the player and keep them hoping to whack him as soon as he appears. Careful testing as well as balancing of the reappearance times will make sure the difficulty level isn't frustrating, but Pox should feel more dangerous than ever.\ul\par
\ulnone\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Boss Battle 5 \b0 - Geneva saving Kara\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
Pox's armory of moves is pretty eclectic by now, and his appearances during Geneva's journey will have enough variety to keep the player guessing what his next attack is likely to be. For her final glyph, saving Kara, we can introduce:\par
\par
\f1 - \b Donut\b0 : A circular roll move that hits a ring of locations\par
\f0\par
- \b Sneak Attack\b0 : Pox appears in mid-air above the grid for a sudden and immediate Drop Stomp. He voluntarily disappears right after landing.\f1\par
\par
- \b Buzzsaw\b0 : A vertical upwards roll \f0 move which progressively affects a whole column of marks unless he's whacked\ul\par
\ulnone\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Boss Battle 6 \b0 - Kara freeing Edizon\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
By now the player knows that when Pox appears you want to whack him immediately and give yourself time to get back to concentrating on those clues. However, whilst that should be possible in this Battle most of the time, some of his new moves deliberately make him hard to hit at first, and culminate in dramatic grid attacks if they miss a second chance to stop him:\par
\par
- \b Sidewinder\b0 : Pox rolls along a full row, then turns and heads back to take out the full row underneath!\par
\par
- \b Slash hop\b0 : Frenetic backwards hopping builds up for a sideways leap and a diagonal moving Scratch-Slash at the grid\par
\par
- \b A-Bomb\b0 : Pox leaps onto the top of the timer, goes into a roll causing time penalties and then after accelerating on the spot, launches himself sideways in arc for a grid attack\ul\par
\ulnone\par
\par
\par
\cf2\ul\b Boss Battle 7 \b0 - Edizon attacking Pox\cf0\ulnone\par
\par
In the ultimate battle, and the final glyph of the whole game - we shouldn't be afraid to tailor-make the ultimate challenge. The player has beaten so many 15x15 puzzles by this stage that they probably could be, and are, doing them in their sleep, so Pox's last stand needs to be frenzied and fast. There will be no timer attacks, no time limit, it's a battle of wills, reactions and perserverance. Pox will reappear almost immediately anytime that he completes a move and disappears voluntarily - that means that his use of the Fast Sneak Attack can lead to a fast succession of disorientating grid changes. However the duration that he's away after being successfully whacked will be generous enough for the player to repair the damage he does. This time, whacking Pox quickly is ALL-important to giving yourself time to concentrate on those clues.\par
\par
New attacks:\ul\par
\ulnone\par
- \b Fast Sneak Attack\b0 : A very quick appear and drop from above\par
\par
- \b Pinball\b0 : Pox riccochets around the grid, typically taking out the corner locations\par
\par
- \b Full Sidewinder\b0 : A fast sidewinder attack, moving up or down, that can potentially mess up the entire grid if left unchecked\par
\par
- \b Screw Attack\b0 : Samus style, Pox leaps sideways and then stays aloft by doing mid-air, jumping roll attacks\par
\par
\par
VICTORY!!!\par
\par
Survive this, keep your wits and your concentration, and you've earned the title of Glyphix Master.\par
}
 